 
 
 
                                                               
  
                      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
    DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS       
           
             
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
   
  
 
 
     
    
       
     
         
   
           
    
 
      
         
  
 
EA 
c; 
'"- a.:;.-i'~ll't. .. 7 0 -.-.... . ,. - 0 
\\ 
00 
______________ 
______________ 
In  the  matter of:  )  
 )  
   )   ISCR  Case No.  20-03078  
 )  
Applicant for Security Clearance  )  
 
Appearances  
For Government: Brian Farrell, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
02/04/2025 
Decision  
BLAZEWICK, Robert B., Chief Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not mitigate the financial considerations security concerns. Eligibility 
for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application ( SF-86) on November 19 , 
2019. On December 2, 2020, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline F (financial 
considerations). DOD issued the SOR u nder Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, 
Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; 
DOD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program 
(January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the Security Executive Agent Directive 4, 
National Security Adjudicative Guidelines (AG), effective June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR on November 8, 2021 , (SOR answer), admitting all 
ten allegations and providing brief amplifying information. He requested a hearing before 
an administrative judge from the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA). 
 
 
 
 
            
         
        
    
 
      
       
        
       
          
          
          
      
    
       
 
 
 
           
        
        
            
 
 
 
       
       
 
  
 
        
      
          
        
          
           
        
          
      
 
         
     
       
        
The case was assigned to me on September 19, 2023. On November 1, 2023, 
DOHA issued a notice scheduling the hearing for November 14, 2023, a date requested 
by the Applicant. (Hearing Exhibit (HE) I, II) Prior to the hearing, the Government provided 
fourteen exhibits (GE 1-14). Applicant provided none. 
The hearing convened as scheduled. Department Counsel offered 13 exhibits (GE 
1–11, 13, and 1 4) after withdrawing previously forwarded GE 12. GE 1-11, 13, and 14 
were admitted into evidence without objection. I left the record open through December 
8, 2023, to allow the parties to submit additional documentation. Applicant timely 
submitted ten exhibits (AE) A – J, which were admitted into evidence without objection. I 
reopened the record on September 17, 2024, through October 11, 2024, due to the length 
of time to complete the decision and allowed both parties to submit additional evidence. 
Department Counsel submitted one additional exhibit (GE 15), which was admitted 
without objection. Applicant did not submit additional material or object to the 
Government’s additional exhibit. DOHA received the hearing transcript (Tr.) on November 
27, 2023. 
SOR Amendment: Paragraphs 1.a. and 1.b.  
During the hearing, based on the evidence adduced, the Government moved to 
amend SOR allegations 1.a. and 1.b. to add the years 2019-2022 for failure to file Federal 
and state income tax returns, respectively. I granted the Government’s motion, amending 
the SOR to conform it to the evidence. Applicant did not object. I noted Applicant would 
be given additional time to reply. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations with explanations in his SOR answer. 
His admissions are included in my findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of 
the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings 
of fact. 
Applicant is 65 years old. He has worked for his current defense contractor since 
April 2018. He was granted his first clearance in October 2009, from the DoD. He was 
issued a position of public trust in February 2017 for employment as a contractor with 
another government agency. Applicant is a high school graduate. He has been married 
three times. He was divorced from his first wife in 1986. He married his second wife in 
1986 and she passed away in 2014. He married his third wife in 2015 and she passed 
away in April 2021. He is currently widowed with an autistic adult dependent stepson, his 
third wife’s son, who resides with him. He has one adult child from his first wife but that 
son does not reside with him. (Tr. 23-27; GE 1; AE G; AE H) 
The SOR, as amended, alleges Appellant failed to file his Federal and state income 
tax returns for tax years 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, and 2022. (SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b). 
The SOR further alleges over $114,000 in delinquent accounts (SOR ¶¶ 1.c – 1.j). In his 
answer to the SOR, Applicant discussed his reason for his financial difficulties and stated 
2 
 
 
 
 
       
          
  
 
          
          
            
          
        
     
           
      
           
     
       
     
 
             
        
      
         
        
         
   
 
     
         
          
         
          
         
          
        
            
  
 
           
             
        
          
       
      
 
           
         
       
he had hired counsel to assist him in getting his finances in order including his tax returns. 
He also stated he was considering filing Chapter 13 bankruptcy. To date, he has not filed 
for bankruptcy. (SOR; SOR Answer; Tr. at 73) 
Applicant worked for a defense contractor who had a contract with his state from 
2009 through 2017. He made a lateral move in February 2017 to a second contractor, 
which had a contract with another U.S. Government agency. Applicant stated he left his 
position at the first contractor because that contract was ending. He was let go from the 
second contractor in November 2017. He stated he was let go because that contract was 
also ending. During his enhanced subject interview (ESI), applicant was confronted with 
the allegation that the second contractor l et him go due to frequent work absences for 
health issues. Applicant disputed this characterization but admitted he was let go. There 
is no evidence of any misconduct or that he was terminated. He stated this lay -off was 
unexpected and added to his financial difficulty, which he admitted was already tenuous. 
Applicant remained unemployed until April 2018 when he was hired by his current 
contractor. (SOR Answer; Tr. 18-22; GE 1 at 11-15, 17-20; GE 7 at 3-10) 
Applicant’s third wife had been in an accident in approximately 2010. Her back was 
severely injured. Applicant stated her condition had continued to deteriorate and she was 
put on expensive medication, much of which was not covered by insurance. He stated he 
also had developed health issues. The financial strain continued until his third wife passed 
away in April 2021. She had several medications; one of which cost $800 per month. In 
addition, he stated there were the costs of specialists and doctor visits. Their health 
insurance covered some of the costs, but not all. (SOR Answer; Tr. 23-25) 
In his SCA, Applicant noted he had not filed either his state or Federal income tax 
returns for tax years 2017 and 2018. His explained he had “paid into the tax system” but 
the added complication from his withdrawing money from his retirement plan due to his 
unemployment was at fault. He noted he had hired an attorney to assist with his 
delinquent filings. He expected a refund. Applicant also listed the debts alleged in SOR 
¶¶ 1.d, 1.g, 1.i, and 1.j. He stated the debts in ¶¶ 1.g and 1.j were the result of billing 
issues and those in ¶¶ 1.d and 1.j were the result of his increasing medical expenses and 
his seven-month unemployment period. He stated he was working with the loan servicing 
company regarding the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.i which he estimated as approximately 
$90,000. (GE 1 at 46-53) 
During Applicant’s January 16, 2020 ESI, he stated he intended to have his 2017 
and 2018 tax returns filed by February 2020 but had not yet filed because he was awaiting 
receipt of documents. He would set up payment if he owed money. He confirmed he had 
hired an attorney to assist him. He provided no documentation to the investigator. The 
investigator gave Applicant an opportunity to submit further documentation during and 
after the interview, but Applicant did not provide anything additional. (GE 7 at 7-11) 
At the hearing, Applicant reiterated he had not yet filed his 2017 and 2018 Federal 
and state tax returns. He also stated he had not filed his tax returns for tax years 2019, 
2020, 2021, and 2022. As noted, I amended the SOR on Department Counsel’s motion, 
3 
 
 
 
 
           
           
    
          
          
           
        
     
        
           
           
 
 
        
          
 
        
      
              
       
 
               
           
        
            
           
        
       
              
              
         
             
       
         
           
    
 
          
       
            
              
         
              
         
   
 
and after no objection from Applicant to add the failure to file Federal and state tax returns 
for tax years 2019, 2020, 2021, and 2022. Applicant hired an accountant to assist him in 
completing and filing his returns for all of the tax years alleged. He stated even though it 
was over two years since his last wife had passed, he had not been doing anything 
regarding these returns because he had lost some of his documents and has a “terrible 
irrational fear of dealing with the IRS” which brings on anxiety. Due to the medical 
expenses and his period of unemployment in 2017-2018, he had to withdraw money from 
his retirement account which complicated his taxes. He admitted he had not reached out 
to get the documents he needed to complete his tax returns for 2017. He stated that in 
the past two weeks he finally had accumulated all the documents he needed to complete 
his 2017, 2018, and 2019 returns and had a meeting scheduled two days after the hearing 
with his tax accountant. (Tr. 28-35) 
Before the record closed, Applicant timely submitted completed Federal tax returns 
for tax years 20 20, 2021, and 2022. All three were dated November 30, 2023, and 
electronically signed by Applicant’s tax preparer complete with appropriate EIN numbers 
for the preparer. Applicant’s 2020 Federal return indicates a refund of $5,203 was due . 
His 2021 Federal return indicates a tax due of $3,347 , and his 2022 Federal return 
indicates a tax due of $821. Applicant stated in his cover letter he was awaiting the original 
documentation for “the remaining years.” (AE AI; AE H; AE I; AE J) 
The debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.c and SOR ¶ 1.f is a judgment taken in October 2019 
by a consumer bank in the amount of $9,310. The same debt is alleged in SOR ¶ 1.f as 
charged off by the same consumer bank. This debt was for a credit card. Applicant could 
not recall when it went delinquent. Applicant stated he had not paid the judgment because 
his wages were being garnished for it and he wished to let that take its course. For some 
reason of which he was unaware, the garnishments ceased and his pay was returned in 
2022, which was why this debt was still on his credit bureau report (CBR). He stated he 
had not paid the judgment from 2019 because he did not know how to go about doing so. 
Before the judgment, he tried to work out a payment plan with the bank but they would 
only accept full payment, which he could not manage at the time. Applicant testified that 
he had been paying this off for the past week prior to the hearing and that now it was 
satisfied. In his supplemental documentation, he provided documentation to substantiate 
his payment. The April 2024 CBR indicates no balance due and states, “payment after 
charge-off/collection.” This debt is resolved. (Tr. 35-41; GE 3 at 2; GE 4 at 13; GE 5; GE 
7 at 5; GE at 5; GE 15 at 1; AE G) 
The debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.d is a charged-off debt to a bank in the amount of 
$47,707. Applicant testified this was for a home equity line of credit. He and his second 
wife took this loan out for some major projects at their home. He testified that he still owed 
$11,000 on the account and that he was making payments of $2,000 per month. He stated 
he had paid $6,000 to date. Appellant provided no documentation to support his 
statement and the April 2024 CBR still listed it as charged off with a balance owed of 
$56,428. This debt is not resolved. (Tr. 41-46; GE 2 at 4; GE 3 at 2; GE 4 at 11; GE 7 at 
6/8; GE 8 at 5; GE 15 at 1) 
4 
 
 
 
 
            
           
      
           
            
               
         
      
              
              
             
  
 
           
     
          
     
    
      
 
          
         
         
     
           
      
 
 
             
         
         
  
           
       
      
   
 
            
       
         
   
 
           
         
          
        
The debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.e is a credit card debt charged off in the amount of 
$35,242. Applicant did not list this debt in his SCA but did confirm it during his ESI. He 
said he used this card for medical expenses during his period of unemployment. He stated 
he expected to be caught up by December 2021. At his hearing, he testified that his 
second wife was a compulsive gambler who used this card for all of their daily bills as well 
as to fund her gambling habit. He did not realize the balance was so high until his second 
wife passed away. He testified the creditor had contacted him frequently to resolve this 
debt, so he was aware of it, but he was financially incapable of doing so at that time. H e 
has not been in contact with the creditor in over a year. He tried to set up a payment plan, 
but the creditor wanted payments too large for him to afford. He intends to pay it off when 
he is more financially capable. This debt is not resolved. (Tr. 46-49; GE 1 at 2; GE 4 at 
12; GE 7at 5; GE 8 at 4; GE 15 at 1) 
The debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.g is a charged-off debt to a bank for an unpaid car 
payment in the amount of $ 853. Applicant list ed this debt in his SCA and confirmed it 
during his ESI. He said this was the result of a mix-up in the autopay system and his final 
car payment was not made. He discovered it when it fell into collection. He paid it in full 
approximately a week before the hearing. This debt is resolved. (Tr. 50-51; GE 1 at 50; 
GE 3 at 3; GE 4 at 13; GE 7 at 5; GE 15 at 1; AE E) 
The debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.h is an account placed for collection by a creditor in 
the amount of $228. Though he admitted it in his answer to the SOR, Applicant testified 
he did not recognize this debt or this creditor. In his SOR answer he stated it w as being 
investigated by his attorney for possibly adding to a Chapter 13 bankruptcy petition. 
However, by the hearing date he had been unable to confirm it. This debt appeared only 
in Applicant’s July 2020 CBR. I find the evidence insufficient to support this allegation. 
(Tr. 51-52; GE 3 at 3) 
The debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1. i is a loan that was past due in the approximate 
amount of $11,823 and a total balance of $82,063 . This is Applicant’s mortgage. In his 
SOR answer he stated he had made arrangements to pay off all delinquent amounts on 
November 19, 2021. During his ESI, he stated he was making double payments to catch 
up on the delinquent amounts. He refinanced his mortgage , which is why it changed 
lenders. The April 2024 CBR showed this debt as caught up and in “paid/paying as 
agreed” status. This debt is resolved. (SOR Answer; Tr. 52-54; GE 1 at 51; GE 2 at 4; GE 
3 at 2; GE 4 at 3; GE 7 at 6; GE 15 at 2) 
The debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1. j is a medical account placed for collection in the 
amount of $150. Applicant stated this had to do with ongoing billing issues he had with a 
medical lab. He paid off the bill before filing his SCA. This debt is resolved. (GE 1 at 3; 
GE 4 at 14; GE 7 at 5) 
Applicant ha s additional debts not alleged in the SOR which included default 
judgments against him in his county. He stated t wo judgments, totaling $ 700, were for 
having non-operable cars on his property. The third for $363 was for failure to pay his 
homeowners’ association (HOA) fees. The fourth judgment was a medical judgment for 
5 
 
 
 
 
        
        
         
          
    
 
  
 
    
      
       
      
 
 
     
        
      
         
   
 
          
     
         
            
     
       
         
 
 
      
    
    
 
        
       
       
      
         
 
           
        
    
              
      
       
nearly $2,000 including attorneys’ fees. He stated he took two years to pay them off 
because paying judgments was not something he was familiar with. He paid them off the 
week before the hearing. He admitted once he found the proper point of contact, payment 
was swift. While these debts cannot be used as basis for revocation, I may consider them 
under the whole-person analysis. (Tr. 56-65: AE A; AE B; AE C; AE D) 
Policies  
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines (AG ), which became 
effective on June 8, 2017. 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number o f variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
6 
 
 
 
 
           
  
 
          
           
      
  
 
 
 
       
 
       
   
            
    
      
          
      
      
      
  
 
    
     
 
 
 
 
  
          
           
           
      
   
              
 
 
      
   
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline F, Financial Considerations  
The security concern for financial considerations is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one ’s means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self-control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual ’s reliability, trustworthiness , and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overe xtended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a)  inability to satisfy debts;  
(c)  a history of not meeting financial obligations;  and  
(f) failure to  file or fraudulently filing annual Federal, state, or local income tax  
returns or failure to pay annual Federal, state, or local income tax as  required.  
Applicant has a history of financial prob lems, including delinquent debts , 
judgments, and failure to file tax returns from 2018-2022. He is unable to pay all of his 
debts and had not yet filed tax returns for several of the tax years. Some of the debts are 
small, others are large. Some of his debts have been ongoing since at least 2018. The 
concerns under AG ¶¶ 19(a), 19(c), and 19(f) are established except as to SOR ¶ 1. h. I 
find insufficient evidence to support the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.h: it appears in only one 
CBR and Applicant testified he has no knowledge of it. It is a small debt and as Applicant 
has been otherwise very truthful, I find his denial persuasive. 
Conditions that could mitigate the financial considerations security concerns are 
provided under AG ¶ 20. The following are potentially applicable: 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
             
       
        
          
           
         
          
         
     
       
    
 
           
        
           
      
        
         
     
     
    
 
           
       
       
    
     
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or occurred  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur and  does not  cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;   
(b) the  conditions  that resulted  in the  financial problem  were  largely  beyond  
the  person’s control (e.g.,  loss of employment,  a  business downturn,   
unexpected  medical emergency,  a  death,  divorce  or separation, clear  
victimization  by predatory lending  practices, or identity  theft), and  the  
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;   
(d) the  individual initiated  and  is adhering  to  a  good-faith  effort to  repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  and  
(g) the  individual  has  made  arrangements  with  the  appropriate  tax  authority  
to  file  or pay  the  amount  owed  and  is in compliance  with  those  
arrangements.  
The allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b are not mitigated. Applicant produced no 
documentation, even with the reopening of the record 10 months post-hearing, regarding 
the status of his 201 7, 2018, or 2019 Federal tax returns. His 2020, 2021, and 2022 
Federal tax returns do appear to be completed and signed and though he did not provide 
evidence they were in fact filed, I find his statement that they have been filed to be 
credible. He provided no evidence regarding any of his state tax returns. Though I find he 
has filed for some of the years alleged, even that filing does not in itself mitigate the failure 
to file. There is no evidence he has made arrangements with either the Federal or state 
tax authorities to file his delinquent returns. This was also during the years his wife’s 
health was declining. Applicant’s stated irrational fear of the IRS was palpable during the 
hearing but it does not mitigate his failure to file. AG ¶ 20(g) does not apply. 
The debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.d and 1.e, totaling $82,949, remain unresolved and 
are not mitigated. Applicant has stated he intends to pay them when he has the resources 
to do so. These debts continue, therefore AG ¶ 20(a) is not applicable. AG ¶ 20(b) is only 
partially applicable in that t he conditions that resulted in these debts were beyond 
Applicant’s control as they were due to his second wife’s gambling issues and her 
proclivity to run up debt and his third wife’s, and his, medical conditions. These were 
exacerbated by his being unemployed for a period in 2016-2017. However, the evidence 
is insufficient to establish Applicant acted responsibly under the circumstances. No other 
potential mitigating condition applies. SOR ¶ 1.d and 1.e remain unmitigated. 
The debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.c and 1.f are resolved. AG ¶ 20 (b) is applicable. It 
is not clear when, or for what, this debt was incurred. It appea rs to have been from the 
time Applicant was unemployed and his third wife was incurring medical expenses. 
Therefore, I find they were due to circumstances beyond his control. His pay was initially 
garnished for this debt after a judgment was taken. While that would usually weigh against 
8 
 
 
 
 
        
      
      
   
  
 
           
         
 
 
          
   
        
 
 
       
           
        
      
           
            
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
       
         
       
      
  
finding he acted responsibly under the circumstances, in this case and with this Applicant, 
I found his testimony sincere that he did not know how to resolve this and thought the 
garnishment was an appro priate way to pay it back. Though his garnished wages were 
returned, he ultimately paid this off in full. It is a close call, but I find SOR ¶ 1.c and 1.f to 
be mitigated. 
The debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.g and 1.j are mitigated under AG ¶ 20(a). These were small 
debts that have been fully paid. They both were the result of some type of 
accounting/billing issue and are not likely to recur. Applicant noted these in his SCA. 
The debt in SOR ¶ 1.i is mitigated under AG ¶ 20(b). Applicant fell behind on his 
mortgage payments due to his period of unemployment and large medical expenses. He 
has refinanced his mortgage, paid the past -due amounts, and his mortgage i s in good 
standing. He acted responsibly under the circumstances. 
Applicant stated he plan s to pay all of his debts. His statement was sincere. 
However, intentions to resolve debts in the future are not a substitute for a track record 
of debt repayment or other responsible approaches. See ISCR Case No. 11-14570 at 3 
(App. Bd. Oct. 23, 2013). Based on Applicant’s credible testimony, significant action on 
several debts, and determination to clear up the remainin g debts, I believe with time he 
will likely establish a track record that could lead to a different result. But that time has not 
yet arrived. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the  whole-person  concept,  the  administrative judge  must  evaluate  an  
applicant’s eligibility for a  security clearance  by considering  the  totality of the  applicant’s  
conduct and  all  relevant circumstances.  The  administrative  judge  should  consider the  
nine  adjudicative  process factors listed at AG  ¶ 2(d):  
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  
and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct;  
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. I considered the potentially 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances 
surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under Guideline F in my whole-
person analysis. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
      
     
 
 
 
        
    
 
   
 
   
    
  
  
  
 
 
         
   
 
 
 
  
 
________________________ 
Overall, the r ecord evidence leaves me with questions and doubts about 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. I conclude Applicant did not 
mitigate the financial considerations security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline F:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.b:  Against Applicant 
Subparagraph  1.c:  For Applicant 
Subparagraphs 1.d-1.e:  Against Applicant 
Subparagraphs  1.f-1.g:  For Applicant 
Subparagraphs  1.h-1.j:  For Applicant 
Conclusion  
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for 
a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Robert B. Blazewick 
Chief Administrative Judge 
10 