 
 
 
                                                                 
 
  
           
             
 
 
    
  
              
       
  
 
 
 
 
  
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
    
 
 
     
     
        
        
            
  
 
      
         
           
    
         
  
 
\\E 
"-0 8i~ ~r~ 0 
~ 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
~ 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 22-00761 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Tara Karoian, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Daniel S. Conway, Esq. 
02/25/2025 
Remand Decision 
TUIDER, Robert, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant mitigated security concerns under Guideline s J (criminal conduct) and 
E (personal conduct). Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Statement of the Case  
On April 20, 2020 , Applicant submitted a Questionnaire for National Security 
Positions (SF-86). On August 8, 2022, the Department of Defense (DOD) Consolidated 
Adjudication Services (CAF) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant 
detailing security concerns under Guidelines J and E. The SOR detailed reasons why 
the CAF was unable to find that it is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant 
or continue a security clearance for Applicant. 
On September 7, 2022 , Applicant submitted h is Answer to th e SOR, and 
requested a decision based on the administrative (written) record, without a hearing 
before an Administrative Judge. Pursuant to ¶¶ E.3.1.7 and E.3.1.8 of the Additional 
Procedural Guidance in Enclosure 3 of DOD Directive 5220.6, Department Counsel 
requested that a hearing before an Administrative Judge be held in this case. On 
December 5, 2022, Department Counsel was ready to proceed. 
1 
 
 
 
      
         
        
      
        
    
     
             
   
 
      
          
       
         
         
  
 
 
 
        
        
    
    
            
  
 
         
         
     
     
        
        
    
  
 
          
         
            
           
   
           
 
 
        
           
On December 13, 2022 , the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) 
assigned the case to me. On January 6, 2023 , DOHA issued a Notice of Microsoft 
Teams Video Teleconference Hearing scheduling the hearing for February 1, 2023. On 
January 26, 2023 , DOHA issued a n Amended Notice of Microsoft Teams Video 
Teleconference Hearing rescheduling the hearing for February 28, 2023. The hearing 
was convened as rescheduled. Department Counsel offered Government Exhibits (GE) 
1 through 8, which I admitted without objection. Applicant testified, and offered Applicant 
Exhibits (AE) A through I, which I admitted without objection. On March 8, 2023, DOHA 
received the hearing transcript (Tr.). 
On June 13, 2024, the DOHA Appeal Board remanded Applicant’s case to 
correct “harmful errors and for further processing consistent with the Directive.” ISCR 
Case No. 22 -00761 (App. Bd. Jun e 13, 2024 ). The Appeal Board provided binding 
instruction on required additional analysis of the facts presented in support of or 
contrary to the Applicant’s version of events compared to the two women who 
separately accused him of assault. 
Findings of Fact  
Background Information  
Applicant is a 35-year-old cyber operations lead analyst who has been employed 
by a defense contractor since September 2022. He seeks to retain his Top 
Secret/Sensitive Compartmented Information (TS/SCI) clearance, which is a 
requirement of his continued employment. (Tr. 17-18, 83, 96-99) Applicant successfully 
held Secret and Top Secret clearances while he was on active duty in the U.S. Army, 
discussed below. (Tr. 97) 
Applicant graduated from high school in May 2009. He was awarded a Bachelor 
of Science Degree in Criminal Justice and Cyber Security in August 2018; and a 
Master’s Degree in Organizational Leadership in August 2019. At the time of his 
hearing, Applicant was pursuing a Ph.D. in Cyber Security. (Tr. 19 -20; 22-25) Applicant 
has been married two times. His first marriage was from August 2012 to December 
2017, and his second marriage was from March 2019 to May 202 2. Both marriages 
ended by divorce. Applicant does not have any children. (Tr. 25 -26, 32-38, 44-45, 55-
57, 61-73, 84-87; AE H, AE I) 
Applicant’s first wife was an active duty Army soldier, who he met on post. She 
has since separated from the Army. Applicant ’s second wife was a Japanese flight 
attendant, who he met online . When Applicant and his second wife divorced, she was 
working in a Japanese restaurant. (Tr. 74 -76, 78 -79, 83 ) Applicant initiated divorce 
proceedings to end both of his marriages. He said neither of his wives wanted a divorce. 
(Tr. 101) [I think it is important to note in the decision in some instances the source of 
the information] 
Applicant served in the Army from November 2009 to January 2017, and in the 
Army Reserve from January 2017 to January 2020. He was honorably discharged as a 
2 
 
 
 
       
          
     
 
 
        
             
        
           
   
 
          
      
        
          
          
           
    
           
              
        
     
  
  
       
         
        
     
  
 
          
      
      
     
     
       
          
        
            
 
 
          
        
        
            
  
sergeant (pay grade E-5). He was subsequently awarded a Veterans Affairs (VA) 100% 
disability rating as a result of injuries he sustained on active duty. (Tr. 26 -29) Since his 
release from active duty, he has worked exclusively for defense contractors. (Tr. 97-98) 
Criminal Conduct/Personal Conduct  
The concerns identified under th ese Guidelines are l isted as three separate 
allegations and are discussed in order as listed in the SOR . Applicant admitted that the 
three arrests discussed below occurred but denied committing the underlying conduct. 
A summary of the record evidence follows. Applicant testified on his own behalf, and I 
found his testimony to be credible. 
SOR ¶ 1.a – On May 17, 2017, Applicant was arrested and charged with abuse 
of a family member and household members, a misdemeanor offense. The complainant 
was Applicant’s first wife. On May 1 8, 2017, a temporary restraining order (TRO) was 
entered against him on behalf of his then-wife. Her petition for a TRO claimed physical 
and verbal abuse, all of which occurred on May 17, 2017 . On May 31, 2017, Applicant’s 
then-wife moved the court to dissolve the TRO and the court granted her request. On 
August 21, 2017, t he criminal case against Applicant was dismissed without prejudice 
because the complaining spouse failed to appear at the hearing. The case was later 
dismissed on September 20, 2017, with prejudice. (Tr. 39-43; GE 2, GE 5, GE 7, GE 8; 
AE A, AE F) Applicant was not required to attend domestic violence counseling 
following this arrest. (Tr. 79 -80) Applicant subsequently initiated divorce proceedings 
against his first wife and their divorce was final on December 26, 2017. (AE I) 
The case file does not contain a police report describing Applicant’s May 17, 
2017 arrest or medical records. Such a report completed by the arresting officers would 
have been helpful in corroborating or refuting the wife’s or Applicant’s versions of 
events. M edical records would have also been help ful in corroborating her injuries, if 
any. 
SOR ¶ 1.b – In July 2019 , Applicant was arrested and charged with abuse of 
family and household member s, a misdemeanor offense . The complainant was 
Applicant’s second wife. (Tr. 50-51, 57-59; GE 8) The only source document contained 
in the case file describing this incident is an Office of Personnel Management (OPM) 
Personal Subject Interview (PSI) of the Applicant conducted under oath on November 3, 
2020. The case file does not contain a police report describing Applicant ’s July 2019 
arrest. Such a report could have corroborated or re futed either parties’ version s of 
events. Applicant’s stated charge was dismissed with prejudice for lack of evidence. (Tr. 
103; GE 8; AE A) Presumably, the prosecutor had access to the police report(s) and all 
available evidence. 
The following extract , a Government Exhibit, was taken under oath from the 
November 3, 2020 OPM PSI, a summary of the investigator’s notes, which provides the 
only details in the case file pertaining to Applicant’s July 2019 arrest. It is Applicant’s 
description of events leading to his arrest . It is unclear what source documents, if any, 
the OPM investigator used when compiling his/her report. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
          
          
        
        
       
         
  
 
 
In  07/2019, Subject (Applicant)  was arrested  for domestic violence  against  
his Spouse. Subject  got into a  verbal altercation  with his Spouse  regarding  
Subject’s dating  history, his past financial debts,  and  how he  does not 
spend  more money on  her. During  the  verbal  altercation, his Spouse  kept  
swinging  her arm  at Subject  in an  attempt  to  hit him.  Subject  protected  
himself by grabbing  her arms to  avoid her from  hitting  him. Subject’s   
Spouse  fell  on  the  bed  while still  trying  to  attack Subject.  Subject  removed  
himself from  the  situation  and  left  the  house  to  go  to  work. He  returned  
home  without  any problems  until 07/06/2019. [Local  Police] arrived  at  his  
residence  and  questioned  his marital situation. Subject was then  arrested.  
He was informed  the  reason  was for domestic violence, due  to  an  arrest  
warrant that was issued  by [state  of residence].  Subject  was confused  by  
the  situation  and  he  was taken  to  the  [local police]  substation  located  in  
[local police  station  city].  While  there, Subject  overheard an  officer’s 
conversation  saying  Subject  was arrested  for a  misdemeanor charge  of  
abuse  of a  household member. He could not  find  anyone  to  post his bail  
and  Subject remained  in jail until 07/08/2019.  On  07/08/2019, Subject was  
released  from  jail because  the  prosecutor wanted  to  drop  all  charges due  
to  not enough  evidence  to  support the  charge. Subject  advised  he  signed  
a  stay away order lasting  until 07/09/2019. Subjects case  was eventually  
expunged  from  [local police] records.  He  was not required  to  go  to  court  
for this incident. Subject advised  he  never  hit  his Spouse, and  he  was not  
certain of what his Spouse  told their  neighbor or the  police. He believes  
his neighbor was the  person  who  called  [local police] based  on  the  
accusation  his Spouse  told their   neighbor.  Subject’s  supervisor, project   
manager, [name  of  project  manager], and  coworkers were  aware  of this 
incident. (GE 8)  
SOR ¶ 1.c – On February 8, 2020, Applicant was arrested and charged with a 
domestic violence crime and a TRO was entered against him. Again, the complainant 
was Applicant’s second wife. (Tr. 52, 59; GE 6; AE E ). The case file does not contain a 
police report describing the February 8, 2020 arrest. Such a report and/or medical 
records could have corroborated or re futed respective parties’ version of events. The 
charge was dismissed with prejudice, as in the two previous cases, because his former 
spouse failed to appear. (Tr. 60, 101; AE A) 
The  following  extract,  a  Government  Exhibit,  was  taken  under oath  from  the  
November 3, 2020  OPM  PSI,  a  summary of the  investigator’s notes, which provides   
details in  the  case  pertaining  to  Applicant’s February 2020   arrest.  It  is Applicant’s  
description  of  events  leading  to  his  arrest.  It  is unclear what source  documents,  if  any,  
the OPM investigator used when compiling his/her  report.  
In  02/2020, Subject’s Spouse  started  a  verbal altercation  with  Subject  for  
various reasons such  as accusing  him  of  cheating  on  her, his dating  
history, and  about  the  amount  of  money he  gives  her. At the  end  of  the  
argument,  Subject’s Spouse  left  and  went to  their  neighbor’s residence.   
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
       
           
     
       
Subject  also left his residence  but not before   locking  his Spouse’s bag  in  
his safe. After Subject  left,  he  received  a  call from  [local police] informing  
he  needed  to  return his Spouse’s bag. Subject complied  and  he  retrieved  
her bag  and  provided  it to  the  [local police]  officer with  no  action  taken  
against him. At approximately 1  am,  an  hour and  twenty  minutes  after the  
police  left,  Subject heard a  knock at his front door. [The  local police]  
returned  because  he  believed  the  neighbor  or Spouse  called  the  police  
and  his Spouse  accused  him  of physically hitting  her. Subject was  
arrested  for domestic violence  and  taken  to  the  [local police]  substation  
located  in [local police  station  city].  Subject  advised  just  like  the  previous  
incident, [the  local police]  released  him  because  the  prosecutor did not  
want to  pursue  the  case  due  to  insufficient  evidence. Subject signed  an  
acknowledgement that  he  was being  released  and  there were  no  charges  
filed  against  him. This resulted  in  Subject  not  having  to  go  to  court.  About  
a  week later, Subject  submitted  an  application  to  request that his three  
[local police] arrest records be  expunged. He requested  this because  he  
did not abuse  any of his Spouses and  they were only accusations. Subject  
advised  his request was granted  and  it  resulted  in  all  three  [local police]  
arrest records  being  expunged,  date  of expungement not  recalled.  Subject  
later found  out  from  his Spouse  that  she  admitted  lying  to  [local  police] by  
telling  them  Subject  hit her, even  though  he  did  not.  His Spouse  also  
admitted  to him  that she  told the police  that Subject hit her because during  
their  verbal argument,  Subject  raised  his voice  to  her and  she  got scared.  
Subject’s supervisor, security manager, project  manager, his sister and   
[name  of project  manager] are aware  of this incident. (GE  8)  
On  February 26, 2020, Applicant’s second   wife  with  the  help of   a  Japanese  
interpreter filed  a  TRO  application  against the  Applicant.  In  her application, she  cited  six  
instances of abuse, the  first being  in  February/March 2019  and  the  last  being  on  
February 8, 2020. Following  the  June  10, 2019  instance  of abuse, she  said that she  
“went to the hospital” because the left side of her body was numb, and  following the July  
2, 2019   instance  of abuse,   she  claimed  that she  “had  to  go  to  EMS” due   to  “many 
bruises and  bumps.” (GE  6, GE  6a;  AE  A) No  medical  records  or photographs of injures 
documenting these injuries are contained in the record.  
Following  his TRO hearing  in February 2020, Applicant volunteered  to  attend  
domestic  violence  classes. He  did so  for the  duration  of  the  active  restraining  order.  
These  classes were  online  and  consisted  of sharing  experiences with  other people and  
teaching  different approaches to  communicating  with  one’s spouse. In  August 2020,   
Applicant’s TRO was dismissed, discussed  below, and he  stopped  taking  the  online  
classes. (Tr. 49-50, 79-83, 101-102; GE 1, GE 8)  
The case file does contain court documents pertaining to the TRO hearing. A 
summary of the hearings related to the February 26, 2020 TRO application , is as follows: 
On March 10, 2020 , a hearing was held regarding the TRO. T he petitioner (Applicant’s 
second wife) was present along with her Domestic Violence Advocate Center ( DVAC) 
advocate and Japanese interpreter. Applicant was not present. The petitioner requested 
5 
 
 
 
           
 
 
       
      
         
         
          
 
 
       
        
        
        
       
 
 
          
         
         
          
         
       
         
 
 
         
          
         
          
             
              
         
             
            
            
        
 
           
   
 
     
            
       
          
           
            
to dissolve the TRO. The judge (RAC) denied petitioner’s request, and she continued the 
case until May 26, 2020. (GE 3) 
On May 26, 2020, the petitioner was present along with her DVAC advocate and 
Japanese interpreter. Applicant was present. Applicant agreed to participate in DVI 
classes and provide proof of same before the next hearing, provide financial support to 
petitioner, and stay away from her residence. The petitioner requested a second time to 
dissolve the TRO . The judge ( RAC) denied petitioner’s request, and she continued the 
hearing until June 29, 2020. (GE 3; AE E) 
On June 29, 2020, the petitioner was present along with her Japanese interpreter. 
Applicant was present. After receiving testimony from both parties, the judge (RAC) took 
judicial notice of the records and files. Applicant was to provide the court with 
documentation related to DVI services and individual or marriage therapy. She also 
ordered all other provisions of the TRO to remain in effect and continued the hearing until 
August 24, 2020. (GE 3; AE E) 
On August 24, 2020, the petitioner was present along with her Japanese 
interpreter. Applicant was not present. The judge (RAC) took judicial notice of the record 
and case file as well as the related cases. She also received sworn testimony from the 
petitioner. The judge ordered that the TRO granted on February 26, 2020 be dissolved 
and vacated without prejudice as requested by the petitioner. On that same day at a later 
hearing, the petitioner was present along with her DVAC Advocate and Japanese 
interpreter. Applicant was also present. The judge (RAC) continued the hearing until 
September 8, 2021. (GE 3, GE 4; AE E) 
On September 8, 2021, the petitioner was present along with her DVAC Advocate. 
Japanese interpreter, and her lawyer. Applicant was present along with his lawyers. The 
judge (RAC) held three off the record pretrial conferences with counsel. She took judicial 
notice of records and the file. Petitioner’s lawyer represented that the parties had a 
divorce hearing with a divorce judge (JBC) scheduled in the afternoon and w ould request 
a mutual no -contact order be in place if the divorce judge is willing to call the divorce 
case. The parties subsequently appeared before the divorce judge ( JBC) and based on 
the parties mutual agreement that a no -contact order be in place and the petitioner’s 
request to dissolve this matter, the divorce judge (JBC) ordered that the TRO entered on 
August 11, 2021 be dissolved with prejudice with it being effective until signed and filed 
by the judge (RAC) at a hearing scheduled for September 22, 2021. (GE 4) 
On September 22, 2021, the judge (RAC) who had been assigned to the case 
from the onset ordered the TRO dissolved with prejudice. (GE 4) 
On November 30, 2021, Applicant filed an order for protection against his second 
wife. In his petition, he alleged two instances in which his second wife had violated the 
September 8, 2021 mutual no-contact order, and two instances of physical violence she 
had committed against him in 2019. On December 13, 2021, Applicant as petitioner , 
appeared before the same judge (RAC) who had conducted all the hearings involving 
the TRO filed by his second wife. His wife failed to appear at the hearing. After hearing 
6 
 
 
 
            
        
 
      
          
          
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
       
       
       
  
 
       
          
             
      
        
 
 
          
      
      
    
   
 
 
 
    
      
       
      
 
 
     
        
       
         
   
testimony from the Applicant, the judge ( RAC) granted him an order of protection 
against his wife for eight years to expire on December 13, 2029. (GE 4; AE B) 
Applicant subsequently initiated divorce proceedings against his second wife and 
their divorce was final on June 20, 2022 . (AE H) Since Applicant’s appearance in 
divorce court in May 2021, he has had no contact with his second spouse and has no 
idea where she is. (Tr. 70-74, 76-78; AE C, AE B) 
As noted,  all  three  arrests were  subsequently expunged,  and  the  records  of  
arrests  were  annulled. The  State’s Attorney General issued  Applicant expungement
certificates.  The  certificates  authorized  Applicant  to  state  in response  to  any  question  or
inquiry, whether or not under oath, that he  had  no  record regarding  these  arrests.
Applicant testified  that  his case  was dismissed  because  his former spouses  failed  to
appear and  added, “[y]es, [a]nd  I just didn’t do  the  crime.” (Tr. 43-44, 49-50, 79-83, 101-
102, 103;  GE 1, GE 8; AE A, AE C, AE D)  
  
 
 
 
Applicant reiterated the reason the domestic violence charges/T RO petitions 
were dismissed was because n either of his wives appeared in cour t because “there 
wasn’t any proof that [he] actually did these ( offenses).” He added that he was never 
abusive to either of his wives. (Tr. 101) 
During the timeframe of August 2017 to December 2017, Applicant consulted a 
psychiatrist at the VA for stress related to his 2017 divorce. Applicant does not recall 
being given a diagnosis but was provided medication to help him sleep that he no 
longer takes. At the time of his hearing, Applicant was seeing a psychologist on an as -
needed basis to help him cope with depression following his divorces. (Tr. 47 -49, 101; 
GE 1) 
Applicant stated that he is a law -abiding citizen who respects the law. He added 
that he is a ten -year Army veteran who lived by Army core values of loyalty, duty, 
selfless service, honor, integrity, and personal courage. He acknowledges making poor 
choices in his personal life but is not a threat to national security. He considers himself a 
patriot and loves his country. (Tr. 102; AE A) 
Law and Policies 
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines (AG ), which became 
effective on June 8, 2017. 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
7 
 
 
 
          
    
           
     
       
       
      
     
 
      
    
    
  
        
       
       
     
     
 
           
          
     
             
     
       
         
     
 
 
          
               
       
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
          
 
 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The 
administrative judge’s over arching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and 
commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c), the entire process is a conscientious 
scrutiny of a number o f variables known as the “whole-person concept.” The 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, 
or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel .” The 
applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation of potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Criminal Conduct  
AG ¶ 30 expresses the security concern pertaining to criminal conduct: 
Criminal activity creates doubt about a  person’s judgment,  reliability, and  
trustworthiness. By its  very nature, it calls into  question  a  person's  ability 
or willingness to comply with laws, rules and regulations.  
AG ¶ 31 describes two conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying in this case: 
8 
 
 
 
 
     
 
   
 
     
 
       
         
    
 
          
             
         
          
  
 
          
        
        
           
    
 
         
         
        
        
         
            
     
 
 
       
         
          
        
           
   
 
       
            
          
       
         
(a) a  pattern of minor offenses,  an y  one  of  which  on  its  own  would  be  unlikely to  
affect a  national security eligibility decision, but which  in combination  cast doubt  
on the  individual's judgment, reliability, or trustworthiness;  and  
(b) evidence (including, but not limited to, a credible allegation, an 
admission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of 
whether the individual was formally charged, prosecuted, or convicted. 
The record evidence fails to establish concerns under AG ¶¶ 31(a) and 31(b). 
As a starting point, the TROs and arrest records present probable cause that 
Applicant committed multiple assaults on two different women two to three years apart . 
Applicant’s evidence refuted the allegations of the two women. 
In the May 2017 case involving Applicant’s first wife, she moved the court to 
dissolve her TRO 13 days after she submitted her petition. The court granted her 
request to dissolve her TRO and did so without prejudice, and then later dismissed it 
with prejudice. The court also dismissed the criminal case against Applicant after the 
complaining spouse failed to appear. 
Applicant admitted that the arrest occurred but denied the underlying conduct at 
every phase of his background investigation , to include during his OPM interview, in his 
SOR response, and during his hearing testimony. Appellant’s former spouse did not 
provide her rationale for why she requested that her TRO against Applicant be 
dissolved, and her subsequent failure to appear at the criminal case hearing. 
Given Applicant’s repeated denials of the underlying conduct surrounding this 
incident, coupled with his f irst spouse’s request to dissolve the TRO and her non -
participation in subsequent criminal proceedings, doubts regarding the veracity of her 
allegations were raised. I t became incumbent on the Applicant to present evidence to 
establish controverted facts to this allegation . Such corroborating evidence could have 
been in the form of but not limited to police reports, medical records, testimony or 
statements from witnesses familiar with incident or the credibility of his former spouse or 
Applicant, or both. 
In the July 2019 case, this is the first of two incidents involving Applicant’s 
second wife. The case file does not contain any primary source documents regarding 
this incident , but rather contains a PSI taken under oath by an OPM investigator on 
November 3, 2020. The evidence that Applicant provided to the investigator clearly 
does not support the allegation contained in SOR ¶ 1.b. If believed, it exonerates 
Applicant and refutes her allegations. 
As noted in the May 2017 incident, Applicant admitted that the arrest occurred, 
but denied the underlying conduct at every phase of his background investigation , to 
include during his OPM interview, in his SOR response, and during his hearing 
testimony. Given Applicant’s repeated denials of the underlying conduct surrounding 
this incident and the fact that the prosecutor did not choose to proceed with the case, it 
9 
 
 
 
          
         
         
    
 
           
           
         
          
            
    
   
 
         
     
         
      
        
         
         
      
   
 
       
          
          
     
     
            
 
 
       
         
       
             
        
               
        
    
            
 
 
        
            
           
            
        
was incumbent on the Applicant to present evidence to establish controverted facts to 
this allegation . Such corroborating evidence could have been in the form of but not 
limited to police reports, medical records, testimony or statements from witnesses 
familiar with incident, or the credibility of his former spouse or Applicant, or both. 
In the February 2020 incident (this is the second of the two incidents involving 
Applicant’s second wife), she moved the court to dissolve her TRO 13 days (February 
2020 was a leap year) after she submitted her petition. The court denied her request to 
dissolve her TRO. She requested the court to dissolve her TRO a second time during 
the May 2020 hearing and on her third attempt to dissolve her TRO during the August 
2020 hearing, the judge granted her request without prejudice. The judge later dissolved 
the TRO with prejudice during a September 2021 hearing. 
As noted in the May 2017 and July 2019 incidents, Applicant admitted that the 
arrest occurred, but denied the underlying conduct at every phase of his background 
investigation, to include during his OPM interview, in his SOR response, and during his 
hearing testimony. Given Applicant’s repeated denials of the underlying conduct 
surrounding this incident and the fact local prosecutor did not proceed with the case, it 
was incumbent on the Applicant to present evidence to establish controverted facts to 
this allegation. Such corroborating evidence could have been in the form of but not 
limited to police reports, medical records, testimony or statements from witnesses 
familiar with incident, or the credibility of his former spouse or Applicant, or both. 
In a turn of events, Applicant filed for an order of protection against his second 
wife in November 2021 based on his statement that she violated their September 2021 
mutual no -contact order. The same judge (RAC) who conducted the five hearings 
involving his then-wife’s TRO hearing presided over Applicant’s request for an order of 
protection in December 2021. Applicant’s then-wife failed to appear. After receiving 
testimony from the Applicant, the judge ( RAC) granted him an order of protection 
against his second wife for eight years. 
In short, the record evidence is insufficient to establish the allegations that 
Applicant committed the offenses alleged in the SOR. Both spouses requested to have 
the TROs dissolved 13 days after they submitted them. Applicant’s first wife succeeded 
in having her TRO dissolved on her first attempt and his second wife succeeded in 
having her TRO dissolved on her third attempt. Additionally, Applicant’s first wife failed 
to appear on the date the criminal case was called, and his second wife failed to appear 
at the hearing for an order of protection the Applicant filed against her. While both wives 
submitted TRO applications under penalty of perjury, the y ultimately did not pursue 
them. The only party who succeeded in having an order of protection granted was the 
Applicant and that was against his second wife for a period of eight years. 
It is noteworthy that the judge who granted Applicant an order of protection was 
the same judge (RAC) who presided over the five hearings involving the TRO his 
second wife filed against him. After having had an opportunity to observe the Applicant 
over the course of those hearings, she would have had an opportunity to assess his 
credibility and would have not issued an eight -year order of protection had she not 
10 
 
 
 
        
        
         
         
       
         
       
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
            
 
 
 
 
     
  
 
         
           
  
 
 
        
      
found him credible. Lastly, as previously stated, I found the Applicant to be credible. He 
was forthright when answering questions posed to him during his hearing. I f I formed a 
favorable impression regarding his credibility , it was based on the cumulative facts 
contained in the record presented as well as making an assessment of his in-person 
testimony. Apart from these allegations, there is no record evidence that Applicant has 
engaged in violence or is a violent person. Absent corroboration beyond what is 
available in the record, there is no other reliable evidence to support a finding that the 
allegations occurred as alleged. In short, Applicant refuted the allegations. 
Personal Conduct  
AG ¶ 15 expresses the security concern pertaining to personal conduct: 
Conduct involving  questionable judgment, lack of candor,  dishonesty,  or  
unwillingness to  comply with  rules and  regulations can  raise  questions  
about an  individual’s reliability, trustworthiness and   ability to   protect  
classified  information. Of  special interest  is any failure  to  provide  truthful  
and  candid answers during  the  security clearance  process or any  other 
failure to cooperate with the security clearance process.  
AG ¶ 16 describes two conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
potentially applicable in this case: 
(c)  credible  ad verse information  in several adjudicative issue  areas  that is  
not sufficient for an  adverse determination  under any other single  
guideline, but which,  when  considered  as a  whole, supports  a  whole-
person  assessment  of questionable  judgment,  untrustworthiness,  
unreliability, lack of candor, unwillingness  to  comply with  rules and  
regulations, or other characteristics indicating  that  the  person  may not  
properly safeguard protected information.  
(e) personal conduct,  or co ncealment of  information  about  one's conduct,  
that creates a  vulnerability to  exploitation, manipulation, or duress by a  
foreign  intelligence  entity or  other  individual or group.  Such  conduct  
includes:  
(1) engaging in activities which, if known, could affect the person's 
personal, professional, or community standing. 
The record evidence does not establish concerns under AG ¶¶ (16(c) and 16(e). 
AG ¶¶ 16(c) and 16(e) are refuted for t he reasons stated in the criminal conduct 
section, infra. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole -person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
11 
 
 
 
       
   
 
  
     
       
       
           
         
 
 
      
        
            
       
            
     
           
          
    
 
      
   
         
          
       
       
           
      
 
  
          
      
       
         
            
     
    
 
conduct and all the circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of  
rehabilitation  and  other permanent  behavioral changes;  (7) the  motivation  
for the  conduct;  (8) the  potential  for pressure, coercion,  exploitation, or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood  of continuation  or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), “[t]he ultimate determination” of whether to grant national 
security eligibility “must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines” and the whole-person concept. My comments under 
Guidelines J and E are incorporated in my whole-person analysis. Some of the factors in 
AG ¶ 2(d) were addressed under those guidelines but some warrant additional 
comment. 
Applicant is a 35-year-old cyber operations lead analyst employed by a defense 
contractor since September 2022. He enlisted in the U.S. Army right after graduating 
from high school . He honorably served on active duty from 2009 to 2017, and in the 
Army Reserve from 2017 to 2020. He was subsequently awarded a 100% VA disability 
rating as a result of injuries sustained on active duty. Since his release from active duty, 
he has worked exclusively for defense contractors. He successfully held Secret and Top 
Secret clearances while he was in the Army, and he currently holds a TS/SCI 
Clearance as a defense contractor. He has diligently pursued higher education as 
discussed, supra, and was working to complete his Ph.D. at the time of his hearing. 
Apart from his professional development and accomplishments, Applicant 
encountered significant disappointments in his personal life, notably his two divorces. 
His first spouse leveled a domestic violence charge against him in 2017, and his second 
spouse leveled domestic violence charges against him in 2019 and 2020. Both spouses 
failed to appear at critical points during their judicial proceedings . The TROs were 
dismissed with prejudice, and Applicant received judicial expungement orders for all 
three of those charges. Applicant stated that his spouses failed to appear because they 
were unable to prove the charges they filed against him. 
As noted, I found Applicant to be credible. He was consistent in his recollection of 
events and did not waiver or hedge in his testimony. I did not have the op portunity to 
evaluate any of the complainants ’ testimony. As such , I was limited in reaching my 
decision based on the record evidence . Following Applicant’s denials, corroboration of 
the complaining parties may have proven helpful had it been offered. A substantial 
evidence standard of proof is required , and the statements of the former spouses met 
this low standard. I n my review of the evidence , Applicant’s credible assertions of 
innocence were sufficient to refute the allegations against him. 
12 
 
 
 
      
        
           
          
           
    
          
            
    
          
 
 
 
 
          
         
           
     
 
 
   
 
      
   
 
    
    
 
 
           
    
  
 
 
 
 
Although not dispositive, Applicant’s conduct was consistent with someone trying 
to establish his innocence such as denying conduct alleged at every phase of these 
proceedings and applying for and receiving an expungement of his arrests. He received 
an eight-year order of protection against his second spouse from the same judge who 
presided over his TRO hearings. I also note that Applicant initiated divorce proceedings 
against both of his spouses , versus the other way around. He said n either spouse 
wanted a divorce. Applicant is also credited with seeking counseling on his own volition 
to cope with the disappointment from his two failed marriages. I have also considered 
Applicant’s military service, his service -connected disabilities, and his successful 
employment as a defense contractor and for having kept his employer informed of these 
events. 
It  is well  settled  that once  a  concern  arises regarding  an  applicant’s  security  
clearance  eligibility,  there is a  strong  presumption  against granting  a  security clearance.  
See Dorfmont v. Brown, 913 F. 2d 1399, 1401 (9th  Cir. 1990), cert. denied, 499 U.S. 905  
(1991).  Applicant’s evidence  was sufficient to  overcome the  Dorfmont  presumption  with  
respect to the security concerns alleged  in the  SOR.   
I have carefully applied the law, as set forth in Department of the Navy v. Egan, 
484 U.S. 518 (1988), Exec. Or. 10865, the Directive, the AGs, and the Appeal Board’s 
jurisprudence to the facts and circumstances in the context of the whole person. 
Applicant mitigated the Guidelines J and E security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  J:  For Applicant 
Subparagraphs  1.a  – 1.c:   For Applicant 
Paragraph  2, Guideline  E:  For Applicant 
Subparagraph  2.a:  For Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of the record as a whole, it is clearly consistent with the national interest 
to grant Applicant eligibility for a security clearance . National security eligibility is 
granted. 
Robert Tuider 
Administrative Judge 
13 