 
 
                                                              
                         
          
           
             
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
    
   
  
  
    
    
 
 
    
  
   
   
     
       
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR Case No.  22-00243  
 )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance  )  
 
Appearances  
For Government: Brian Farrell, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
06/26/2025 
Decision 
LAFAYE, Gatha, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to provide sufficient evidence to mitigate security concerns under 
Guidelines B (foreign influence), E (personal conduct ), and F (financial considerations ). 
Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the  Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on August 1, 2023. On 
January 2, 2025, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of Reasons 
(SOR) alleging security concerns under Guidelines B and E. The DOD acted under 
Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry 
(February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel 
Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the 
adjudicative guidelines (AG) effective within the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR on January 9, 2025, and elected to have his case 
decided on the written record in lieu of a hearing. Department Counsel submitted the 
Government’s written case on January 29, 2025, including documents marked as 
Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through GE 11. He amended the SOR on the same date 
through the file of relevant material (FORM) and alleged a new security concern under 
Guideline F, and two additional personal conduct security concerns under Guideline E. 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
        
       
    
    
   
    
  
 
 
 
      
    
      
     
        
 
 
        
    
  
  
 
     
     
      
      
      
 
   
     
  
       
     
      
       
       
     
 
   
   
    
A complete copy of the FORM was sent to Applicant, who was given an opportunity 
to file objections and submit material to refute, extenuate, or mitigate the Government’s 
evidence. Applicant received the FORM on February 11, 2025. He responded to the new 
allegations in the Amended SOR on February 21, 2025, and submitted additional 
documentary evidence with his response. The case was assigned to me on May 19, 2025. 
I labeled Applicant’s response to the FORM and documents submitted with it collectively 
as Applicant Exhibit (AE) A and admitted it in evidence without objection. GE 1 and GE 2 
are already part of the administrative record. I admitted GE 3 through GE 11 in evidence 
without objection. 
Procedural Ruling  
Department Counsel requested that I take administrative notice (AN) of certain 
facts related to country conditions in the Republic of Djibouti (Djibouti) and the 
neighboring Federal Republic of Somalia (Somalia), from official U.S. Government 
sources. Applicant did not object and I granted the request. In this decision, I take 
administrative notice of certain official U.S. Government facts related to Djibouti (AN I) 
and Somalia (AN II), and the facts administratively noticed are set forth in the Findings of 
Facts, below. 
Findings of Fact  
In his Answer, Applicant admitted the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a through 1.f, and 
denied the SOR allegation in ¶¶ 2.a through 2.d, and 3.a. His admissions are incorporated 
in my findings of fact. After careful review of the evidence, I make the following additional 
findings of fact. 
Applicant is 41 years old. Born in Djibouti in May 1984, he is a Djiboutian citizen 
by birth. He has never married and has no children. He earned his high school diploma 
in Djibouti in J une 2005. He was awarded a 500 Euro scholarship from the Djibouti 
government to attend college in the People’s Republic of Algeria (Algeria) from 2005 to 
2008, and he earned an associate degree in March 2008. (GE 3, 4, 6, 11) 
In October 2013, Applicant immigrated to the United States after winning the visa 
lottery. He arrived in the United States as a permanent resident. Upon arrival, Applicant 
resided with his Djiboutian sponsor for a few weeks in State 1 (S1) before attending 
college in State 2 (S2) from 2014 to 2018. He did not complete a degree. He became a 
naturalized United States citizen in September 2019. He is a dual citizen of Djibouti and 
the United States and maintains active passports for each country. Applicant last renewed 
his Djibouti passport in October 2020, he said, to simplify his travels to Djibouti and 
Ethiopia. He has expressed a willingness to renounce his Djibouti citizenship if necessary 
for a security clearance. (GE 3, 4, 6, 11) 
In 2023, Applicant applied for a linguist position with a federal contractor supporting 
DOD in Djibouti. He said he want s to live near his family in Djibouti , and that a security 
clearance will enable him to qualify for better U.S. Government positions in the future. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
      
       
         
      
         
     
         
 
      
    
     
     
   
     
 
         
    
      
   
      
        
       
      
 
  
   
  
  
      
 
 
   
    
   
     
 
     
 
  
    
   
        
       
Applicant’s employment is contingent upon his eligibility for a security clearance. (GE 3, 
4, 6, 11) 
Applicant completed his first SCA in March 2021 when he first applied for a 
previous linguist position with a federal contractor in Djibouti. (GE 4) His most recent SCA, 
completed in August 2023, indicates Applicant has resided in four U.S. states since 
immigrating to the United States and has worked primarily as a self -employed contract 
driver. He does not own property in the United States . He has resided primarily with 
friends and roommates from Djibouti or Somalia throughout his time in the United States, 
only renting occasionally for short periods of time. (GE 3, 4, 6, 11) 
After moving to State 2 where he attended college, Applicant initially worked as a 
warehouse employee from April through June 2014 . He claimed he next worked as a 
security officer for security company in S 2 from July 2014 through December 2017; 
however, he was unable to provide proof of this employment. He said he did not know 
what happened to the company but claimed he received W2 statement s from them. He 
did not submit any W2 statements to support the assertion. (GE 11) 
Applicant also claimed he was self-employed and working part-time in State 3 (S3) 
located more than 2,000 miles away during part of this time. He said he initially worked 
as Lyft driver in S3 from April 2015 through July 2018, and then as an Uber driver from 
September 2015 through March 2020. From July 2018 through July 2020, he worked full-
time as a material attendant for a company in S3. He also listed working part -time as a 
flex driver in S3 from April through July 2020. He said he was unemployed from August 
2020 through July 2021 in S3 after he resigned due to fear of becoming ill during the 
COVID-19 pandemic. (GE 3, 4, 6, 11) 
Applicant said he worked full time as a self -employed Uber and Lyft driver in a 
different state, s tate 4 (S4) , from August 2021 through November 2022. Next, he was 
unemployed and residing in Djibouti from December 2022 through May 2023, living with 
his mother and extended family. In June 2023, he returned to the United States, moved 
in with friends in S4, and resumed his work as a self-employed Uber driver. (GE 3, 4, 6, 
11) 
Applicant’s record reflects two significant periods where he resided in Djibouti. 
First, from October 2020 through February 2021 (five months), he resided in Djibouti with 
his family. Next, from November 2022 through May 2023 (seven months) , he again 
resided with his family in Djibouti. Applicant also visited family and friends in Canada in 
July 2022. He listed a tourism trip to Ethiopia in November 2022, while enroute to Djibouti. 
(GE 3, 4, 5, 6). 
Applicant’s mother, three sisters, and three brothers are citizens and residents of 
Djibouti (SOR ¶¶ 1.a -1.c). He maintains weekly contact with his mother, a traditional 
Djiboutian housewife, and has provided substantial financial support to her, primarily, to 
build her a home in Djibouti, discussed in more detail below. Applicant also maintains 
close and continuing contact with four of his six siblings, two brothers (B1, B3) and two 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
      
      
       
        
      
      
    
 
      
    
     
        
      
   
   
    
      
 
     
    
    
     
      
     
      
      
   
    
     
   
     
 
    
    
 
    
   
    
     
    
        
 
     
     
      
sisters ( Z1, Z3). He communicates with one sister (Z3) every week . He said he also 
maintains contact at least quarterly with his remaining siblings, a sister (Z2) and a brother 
(B2), who has been an employee of the U.S. Government in Djibouti since 2008. In 
January 2023, he paid $69,000 USD to purchase an auto parts business in Djibouti that 
he co-owns with his brother (B3). He said B3 acquired the license for the business and 
they both pay monthly rent for the storefront. The SOR in ¶ 1.f alleges that Applicant co-
owned an auto parts store in Djibouti, valued at about $69,000 USD. (GE 3, 8, 11) 
Applicant has six personal friends who are citizens and residents of Djibouti (SOR 
¶ 1.d), and he admitted he has maintained close and continuing relations with them. He 
communicates with them in person, by telephone, and electronically, most of them weekly 
and monthly, and two quarterly. Three friends are employees of the Djibouti government 
doing work at the Port of Djibouti, the University of Djibouti, and the Djibouti Department 
of Budget. Two friends are students , and one friend is self-employed. Applicant 
acknowledged that his relations with his mother, six siblings and six friends are important 
to him personally but said they do not compromise his loyalty to the United States or his 
ability to protect classified information. (GE 3, 4, 8, 11; Answer to SOR) 
Applicant denied providing consistent financial support to any foreign national, but 
admitted providing funds to his mother for building a house in Djibouti. He said he did not 
believe providing funds to his family to build his mother a house was considered “financial 
support.” His mother wanted him to build her a house, and he started sending funds to 
build his mother’s house in 2016. He said he had been saving and living frugally, and in 
about 2016, he was able to send $35,000 USD via Western Union to his brother (B2) to 
purchase the property. He said he provided about $55,000 USD of financial support for 
building the house in 2020 when he visited Djibouti. He paid for the building materials and 
hired workers to finish the home while there. His mother’s house was finished in 2020, 
and his mother and family members are living there. The house is a six-bedroom property 
in Djibouti with a stated worth of about $120,000 USD. He is set to inherit 50% of the 
property when his mother dies. He said he would give it to his siblings who live there with 
his mother and if he received proceeds, he would buy land in Djibouti. (GE 6, 11) 
Applicant said he also gave gifts during this time to people in the community who 
needed it, something expected from Djiboutians who live in the United States and return. 
He said the Djiboutian culture is communal and people are expected to support one 
another. He said he lived with roommates and friends while working in the United States, 
denied himself a social life, and focused on saving funds to satisfy his financial obligation 
to his mother. He described his life as being completely work-focused. He sent about 
$300 USD to family members during the holidays for gifts. He also helped when asked by 
family or Djibouti community members that needed medical care or had a financial issue. 
He provided about $300 once or twice a year for this purpose. (GE 6, 11) 
SOR ¶ 1.e alleges that Applicant provided about $112,000 USD of financial 
support to his mother. Applicant’s total earning reported to the Internal Revenue Service 
(IRS) for income earned from 2014 through 2023 was $191,415. From 2020 through 
4 
 
2023,  his  adjusted gross earnings  and tax relief credits  per  his  tax transcripts  are listed  
below.  (GE 11 at  22-38)  
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
    
   
 
 
   
      
   
 
 
     
      
      
    
    
  
 
   
     
      
 
 
Adjus
ted Gross Earnings: Tax relief credit: 
Tax Year  2020  
Tax Year  2021  
$37, 090  
$25,553  
$1,800  t otal  ($1,200 +  $600)  
$1,400  
Tax Year  2022  $   1,215  $ 0  
Tax Year  2023  $ 5,194  $ 0  
Appl
icant provided financial support to his mother and others from 2016 through 
2023. From 2017 to 2020, he said he sent his mother $350 USD quarterly or about $5,600 
USD each year. In 2020, he sent her $5,000 USD three times, or $15,000 USD, for house 
construction costs, and in 2021, he sent his mother an additional $300 USD on three 
separate occasions, or $900 USD. (GE 6,11) 
In  October  2020, while living in Djibouti, Applicant sent  a $20,000  bank-to-bank  
wire transfer  to  a friend’s  (F1) account, and his  friend sent  this  money to him  in Djibouti 
via Western Union so that he would have access to the funds for construction of his  
mother’s house. In November 2020,  he sent a different friend (F2) a $15,000 ba nk-to-
bank wire transfer,  and similar to the above, his friend forwarded  this money to him in  
Djibouti via  Western Union  so that  he would  have access to the funds for construction of  
his mother’s house.  He also sent another  friend (F3) a $20,000 bank-to-bank wire transfer  
in  November 2020, for  forwarding to him in Djibouti  via  Western Union transfers. All of the  
above transactions were required because Applicant had already  reached  Western  
Union’s  maximum dollar  amount  allowed each year  for international transfers.  In March  
2021, Applicant sent another friend in Djibouti (F4) $5,000  USD via Western Union for 
construction costs associated with Applicant’s  mother’s house. (GE 6)  
From 2018 to 2020, Applicant sent about $800 via Western Union to a friend (F5) 
in Djibouti for F5’s divorce and daily living expenses. From 2019 to 2021, he sent about 
$600 USD via Western Union to other close relatives for medical and living expenses . 
(GE 6) 
Under Guideline E, the SOR alleges that Applicant failed to disclose he provided 
financial support to a foreign national on both his August 2023 SCA (SOR ¶ 2.a) and his 
March 2021 SCA (SOR ¶ 2.b). In both security clearance applications, he responded “No” 
to the question in “Section 20A – Foreign Activities, Foreign Financial Interests – Foreign 
National Support, ” which asked, “Have you EVER provided financial support for any 
foreign national?” (GE 3, 4) 
Applicant denied he deliberately failed to disclose information related to the 
financial support he provided to his mother and other family members. He acknowledged 
that his responses in both his 2021 and 2023 SCAs were incorrect, but said he never 
intended to deceive the Government, stating: 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
    
  
 
  
  
    
   
   
 
   
  
   
   
      
    
  
  
 
      
    
     
     
   
      
    
 
   
     
        
    
    
 
    
   
   
    
     
    
 
     
    
      
     
First, the omission in my e-QIP form in response to section 20A on March 
8, 2021 was unintentional and caused by a misunderstanding of the 
definition of a foreign national, but after receiving clarification about foreign 
national support by the investigator in the day of the subject interview, I gave 
all necessary detail and information. 
Second, the omission on my e- QIP in response t o section 20A on August 
1, 2023, was unintentional, but after submitting my e- QIP in 2021, I saved 
a copy on my computer then in 2023, I opened the same e- QIP file and 
updated only a few sections of it and omitted correcting section 20A. This is 
the reason why I made the same mistake twice. (Answer to the SOR) 
Applicant went on to explain that his 2021 SCA was “stopped” in the middle of the 
process by the previous contractor who lost the contract, and that he did not receive any 
feedback from his 2021 SCA. He further explained in his response to the FORM that he 
believed that sending money to his mother was a personal obligation, and did not fall 
within the definition of “financial assistance to a foreign national.” He reiterated this was 
an unintentional mistake and once he realized his error, he provided details of his financial 
support during his interview, and that in doing so, he acted in good faith to correct his 
error. (AE A). 
SOR ¶ 2.c alleges that Applicant collected unemployment benefits from S 3 
between October 2020 and February 2021, and that he was living in Djibouti at the time, 
and was therefore ineligible to receive the unemployment benefits. Applicant admitted he 
collected unemployment benefits from S3 between October 2020 and February 2021, but 
stated he was unaware he did not meet the eligibility requirements because this was his 
first time applying for unemployment assistance. He commented, “I sincerely regret this 
and take full responsibility for my actions.” (GE 11 at 19; AE A) 
Applicant was unemployed from August 2020 through August 2021. (GE 11 at 19) 
He received $391 per week for unemployment and $300 per month for COVID-19 
pandemic federal aid. He said he currently earns $6,000 per month and has about $2,895 
remaining each month after paying all bills and expenses. He reported having a savings 
account balance of $10,000 USD. (GE 6, 7, 11) 
Under Guideline F, SOR ¶ 3 .a alleges that Applicant has demonstrated 
unexplained affluence since about 2016 in that he earned a combined gross income from 
2014 through 2023 of about $190,000, but during this period, he gifted about $95,000 to 
Djiboutian family members and friends; invested about $70,000 in a Djiboutian business; 
and purchased and paid off at least four vehicles, one costing about $34,000. This 
allegation is cross-alleged under Guideline E in SOR, in ¶ 2.d. 
Applicant denied t he allegation under both guidelines. He said he receives IRS 
form 1099s as a self -employed individual , and that his transcripts only include his 
adjusted gross income, not his gross income earned from the business. He claimed his 
work allowed him to take 50% deductions for meals , mileage, and various vehicle 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
   
    
    
    
 
    
   
  
   
      
    
    
       
  
 
     
 
 
  
    
  
   
   
    
   
  
  
 
 
    
  
     
     
  
   
  
  
  
    
expenses including interest on car loans , maintenance, gas, and insurance , and this 
information was excluded from the IRS transcript. Applicant did not include a copy of any 
of his income tax return s for any of the years in question to support his assertion. He 
simply commented that his explanation “clarifies why IRS account transcripts reflect 
adjusted gross income and not gross income, as any CPA expert can confirm.” No other 
information about financial advisors or CPAs was provided. (AE A) 
Regarding the vehicles, Applicant said he purchased a 2014 Toyota C orolla in 
2015 for $18,000 that he used for his rideshare business. He traded in this vehicle in 
2019, for a 2019 Toyota Highlander, which he sold back to the dealer in 2020 due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic. He said the dealer paid the remaining loan balance and gave him 
his equity portion. He purchased a 2014 Nissan Sentra in May 2021 for $5,000 cash. In 
October 2021, he had an auto accident, totaled the car, and his insurance paid him 
$7,500, which he used as a downpayment on a 2022 Toyota Camry Hybrid. He sold this 
car, and provided a copy of a wholesale order as proof this vehicle was sold. (AE A) 
Administrative Notice  
I take administrative notice of the below following facts on Djibouti and Somalia: 
Djibouti  
Djibouti is a republic with a parliament and executive branch led by the President. 
Djibouti is strategically located in the Horn of Africa and is a key U.S. partner on security, 
regional stability, and humanitarian efforts across the region. Djibouti’s proximity to 
Somalia and Yemen remains a risk factor for terrorism financing concerns, as many 
Djibouti-based financial institutions continue to operate in neighboring countries that have 
a weak or not Anti-Money Laundering/Countering the Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT) 
legislation or other financial controls. There w ere no published law enforcement cases 
involving suspected terrorism financing in 2021. It is noted that no information was 
provided concerning Djibouti’s human rights record. (AN 1) 
Somalia  
The State Department has issued a Level 4 “Do Not Travel” advisory for Somalia 
due to crime, terrorism, civil unrest, health issues, kidnapping, and piracy . Violent crime 
such as kidnapping and murder, is common throughout Somalia. Some schools and other 
facilities act as “rehabilitation” centers and “de- westernization” camps, with people 
reporting being held against their will. Terrorists continue to plot kidnappings, bombings, 
and other attacks in Somalia. Method of attacks in terrorist incidents include car bombs, 
suicide bombers, individual attackers, and rocket fire. The terrorism situation in Somalia 
remains unstable and dangerous , and no area in Somalia is immune from violence. Al-
Shabaab continues to pose a significant terrorism threat in Somalia and the region despite 
shared efforts of the Federal Government of Somalia, neighboring countries, and other 
international partners to contain the threat. Significant human rights issues also exist in 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
   
  
   
 
   
   
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
   
  
Somalia, including unlawful or arbitrary killings, arbitrary arrest or detention, enforced 
disappearances or abductions, and serious government corruption. (AN II) 
Policies  
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to who m it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
that an applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines (AG). These guidelines are not inflexible 
rules of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines 
are applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative 
judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
“The applicant is responsible for presenting witnesses  and other evidence to rebut,  
explain, extenuate, or  mitigate facts  admitted by the applicant or proven by Department  
Counsel, and has the ultimate burden of  persuasion as to obtaining a  favorable clearance 
decision.”  Directive ¶ E3.1.15.  An applicant “has  the ul timate burden of  demonstrating  
that it is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue his security  
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01-20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec.  19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance  
determinations should err, if they  must,  on the side of  denials.”  Department of the Navy  
v. Egan,  484 U.S.  518, 531 (1988); see  AG  ¶ 2(b).  
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. Under AG 
¶ 2(b), any doubt will be resolved in favor of the national security.” Section 7 of EO 10865 
provides that decisions shall be “in terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be 
a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 
3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline B, Foreign Influence   
The security concern for foreign influence is set out in AG ¶ 6: 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
  
 
  
 
  
    
   
   
  
  
 
 
     
      
     
     
         
    
     
     
   
  
     
    
 
Foreign contacts and interests, including, but not limited to, business, 
financial, and property interests, are a national security concern if they result 
in divided allegiance. They may also be a national security concern if they 
create circumstances in which the individual may be manipulated or 
induced to help a foreign person, group, organization, or government in a 
way inconsistent with U.S. interests or otherwise made vulnerable to 
pressure or coercion by any foreign interest. Assessment of foreign 
contacts and interests should consider the country in which the foreign 
contact or interest is located, including, but not limited to, considerations 
such as whether it is known to target U.S. citizens to obtain classified or 
sensitive information or is associated with a risk of terrorism. 
AG ¶ 7 describes conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a): contact, regardless of  met
 hod, with a foreign family  member, business  
or professional associate, friend, or other person who is a citizen of or  
resident in a foreign country if  that contact  creates a heightened risk of  
foreign exploitation,  inducement, manipulation,  pressure, or  coercion;   
(b): connections to a foreign person,  grou p,  government, or country that  
create a potential conflict of interest between the individual's obligation to  
protect classified or sensitive information or technology and the individual’s  
desire to help a foreign person, group,  or country by  providing that  
information or  technology;  and  
(f): substantial business, financial, or  prop erty interests in a foreign country,  
or in any foreign owned or foreign-operated business  that could subject the  
individual  to a heightened risk  of foreign influence or exploitation or personal  
conflict of interest.  
Appli
cant’s mother, three brothers, three sisters and six friends are all citizens and 
residents of Djibout i and he admittedly has close and continuous communications with 
them. The Appeal Board has determined that the “heightened risk” language in AG ¶ 7(a) 
addresses an applicant’s foreign contacts, not necessarily the foreign country involv ed, 
though the foreign country in which the foreign contacts are located is an important 
consideration. See ISCR Case No.17-03026 at 5 (App. Bd. Jan. 16, 2019) While current 
conditions in Djibouti, a key United States partner on security, regional stability, and 
humanitarian efforts in the Horn of Africa, does not per se present a heightened risk, it is 
Applicant’s close and continuous contacts with his mother, siblings, and friends that 
create a heightened risk of foreign exploitation, pressure, coercion or manipulation, which 
places a heavy burden on Applicant to mitigate the security concern. Moreover, his deep 
emotional and financial connections to his family and friends in Djibouti create a potential 
conflict of interest. AG ¶¶ 7(a) and 7(b) apply. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
       
    
       
     
      
       
          
    
    
 
        
 
 
  
 
 
 
Since 2016, Applicant has provide d substantial financial support to his family in 
Djibouti, particularly his mother and brother B3, with whom he co-owns a business. All of 
Applicant’s immediate family members, extended relatives, and closest friends are 
citizens and residents of Djibouti. From 2016 through 2023, he provided about $112,000 
in financial support to his mother to build her a new home in Djibouti. He resided with his 
mother and siblings in Djibouti, in the house he built for her, for five months from late 2020 
to early 2021, and for seven months from late 2022 to March 2023. In 2023, Applicant 
also purchased an auto parts business in Djibouti for $69,000 and he co-owns the 
business with his brother, B3. AG ¶ 7(f) applies. 
SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.e are duplicate allegations , and thus SOR ¶ 1.a is decided in 
Applicant’s favor. 
AG ¶ 8 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. The following are 
potentially applicable: 
(a): the nature of  the r elationship with foreign persons, the country in which  
these persons are located,  or the positions  or activities of those persons in  
that country are such  that it is unlikely the individual will be placed in  a  
position of having to choose between the interests of a foreign individual,  
group, organization and interests of the United States;  
(b): there is  no conf lict of interest,  either because the individual’s sense of  
loyalty or obligation to the foreign person,  group, government, or country is  
so minimal, or the individual has such deep and longstanding relationships  
and loyalties in the U.S., that the individual can be expected to resolve any  
conflict of interests in favor of  the U.S. interests;   
(c):  contact or communication with foreign  ci tizens is so casual and  
infrequent  that there is little likelihood that it  could create a risk for  foreign  
influence or exploitation;  and  
(f): the value or routine nature of the foreign business,  fi nancial, or  property  
interests is such that they are unlikely to result in a conflict and  could not  be  
used effectively to influence, manipulate, or pressure the  individual.   
None of  the above mitigating conditions  are sufficiently  established to mitigate the 
foreign influence security concerns in this case.  Applicant’s financial support and frequent  
contact with family and friends in Djibouti  are manifestations  of his care and concerns for  
his relatives living  there.  His emotional  and financial connections are inextricably tied to  
Djibouti.  He  has provided  well over  $120,000 USD  of financial support to his  mother,  
family,  and  friends.  When Applicant was  unable to send large sums  of money to Djibouti  
via Western Union due to reaching the annual  maximum,  he  transferred  large sums of  
U.S. dollars  to bank accounts  of  his  trusted  friends  for them  to  transfer  those  funds to 
Djibouti  on his  behalf  via Western Union. He  has  also applied twice  for  linguist positions  
10 
 
 
 
 
 
      
     
 
    
    
      
    
      
    
        
     
    
      
 
 
 
  
 
  
    
  
  
   
   
   
  
   
 
   
   
 
 
   
       
 
 
      
    
       
     
      
with federal defense contractors in Djibouti, which would enable him to live and work in 
Djibouti with or near his family and friends. 
Applicant invested $69,000 in an auto parts business in Djibouti that he co-owns 
with his brother. He has a 50% inheritable interest in the six-bedroom house in Djibouti, 
valued at $120,000, which he financed and built for his mother. In comparison, he does 
not own a home or any real estate in the United States . Since immigrating to the United 
States, he has resided with friends and roommates associated with Djibouti or Somalia, 
and only renting occasionally. His job as a self-employed contract driver has enabled him 
to move about freely, starting and stopping his business as desired. Between October 
2020 and March 2023, he moved back to Djibouti for a combined period of 12 months, 
where he resided with his mother and family members in the six- bedroom house he built 
for her. I find that Applicant’s evidence is insufficient to mitigate foreign influence security 
concerns. 
Guideline F, Financial Considerations  
The security concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
Affluence that cannot be explained by known sources of income is also a 
security concern insofar as it may result from criminal activity, including 
espionage. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. The following is potentially relevant in this case: 
(g): unexplained affluence,  as shown by a lifestyle or standard of  living,  
increase in net worth,  or money transfers that are inconsistent with known  
legal sources of income.  
Applicant has demonstrated unexplained affluence since 2016. The entirety of his 
reported adjusted gross income from 2014 through 2023 totaled about $191,415. 
However, during this period, he was able to send about $112,000 to Djibouti for the benefit 
of his mother to finance and build her a home. He also purchased an auto parts business 
in Djibouti for $69,000 that he co-owns with his brother , and he has provided periodic 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
    
    
   
    
       
 
 
    
 
     
     
   
  
     
 
 
    
 
 
  
    
   
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
financial support to extended family, friends, and other Djiboutian community members in 
need of financial assistance, a cultural expectation. AG ¶ 19(g) applies here. 
Conditions that could mitigate financial conditions security concerns are provided 
under AG ¶ 20. The following is potentially applicable: 
(f): the affluence resulted from  a legal source of income.  
Applicant’s explanation is insufficient to mitigate the concern. He said that, as a 
self-employed individual, he receives IRS form 1099s and IRS transcripts does not 
correctly indicate his gross income earned from the business. He claimed he is able to 
take 50% deductions for meals, mileage, and various vehicle expenses including interest 
on car loans, maintenance, gas, and insurance, and this information was excluded from 
the IRS transcript. However, Applicant did not include a copy of any of his income tax 
returns for any of the periods in question to support his assertion. He simply commented 
that his explanation “clarifies why IRS account transcripts reflect adjusted gross income 
and not gross income, as any CPA expert can confirm.” 
No further information about financial advisors or CPA s was provided. I find that 
Applicant is unable to sufficiently explain the significant disparity in his reported earnings, 
and the substantial sums of funds he was able to send to Djibouti to build his mother a 
house valued at $120,000; purchase a business for $69,000 ; and to otherwise provide 
periodic financial support to family and friends. AG ¶ 20(f) is not established. 
Guideline E,  Personal Conduct   
The security concern for personal conduct is set out in AG ¶ 15, as follows: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect 
classified information. Of special interest is any failure to provide truthful 
and candid answers during the security clearance process or any other 
failure to cooperate with the security clearance process. 
AG ¶ 16 describes conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying. The following disqualifying condition is potentially applicable: 
(a) deliberate omission, concealment,  or f
 alsification of relevant facts from  
any personnel  security  questionnaire,  personal history statement, or  similar  
form  used to conduct investigations, determine employment qualifications,  
award benefits  or status,  determine national security eligibility or  
trustworthiness, or  award fiduciary responsibilities;  and   
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
       
       
      
    
     
    
   
     
        
   
 
    
   
       
    
 
       
    
    
 
  
 
     
  
      
     
   
 
      
        
     
   
      
  
     
     
    
 
(e) personal conduct,  or c oncealment  of information about one's conduct,  
that  creates a  vulnerability to exploitation,  manipulation,  or duress by a  
foreign intelligence entity  or other individual  or group. Such  conduct  
includes:  (1) engaging in activities which, if known, could affect  the person's  
personal, professional, or community standing.  
The SO
R alleges Applicant failed to disclose he provided financial support to 
foreign nationals in both his August 2023 SCA and his March 2021 SCA ( SOR ¶¶ 2.a, 
2.b). He responded “No” to the question in “Section 20A – Foreign Activities, Foreign 
Financial Interests – Foreign National Support,” of both SCAs, which asked whether he 
had EVER provided financial support for any foreign national . He denied these 
allegations, acknowledging that his response to the question in both SCAs was incorrect, 
but that he never intended to deceive the Government . He made the same error in the 
2023 SCA because he did not receive feedback on his 2021 SCA. After the investigator 
clarified the question and he understood his error, he provided detailed responses about 
his financial support to his mother and other foreign relatives and friends. AG ¶ 16(a) has 
not been established. SOR ¶¶ 2.a and 2.b are decided in Applicant’s favor. 
SOR ¶ 1.c alleges Applicant collected unemployment from the S 3 between 
October 2020 and February 2021 though he was living in Djibouti at the time and thus 
was ineligible for the benefit. Applicant admitted the allegations but stated he was 
unaware of his ineligibility. 
In July 2020, Applicant left his full- time position as a material attendant for a 
company in S3, and his part-time position as flex driver because he feared becoming ill 
during the COVID-19 pandemic. He applied for unemployment benefits (benefits) in S3, 
and received them. There are several unanswered questions about Applicant’s benefits. 
First, it is unclear when he applied for them, when he received his first check, whether 
there were ongoing conditions or requirements he had to meet to continue receiving 
benefits, etc. The Government did not provide evidentiary proof, such as a copy of his 
application for unemployment benefits . Nor did the Government reference a statute or 
rule it relied upon to demonstrate A pplicant was ineligib le for the benefit . There is no 
indication in the record that Applicant set out to deceive S3 to qualify for and to continue 
receiving S3’s unemployment benefits. 
Applicant left both jobs in S3 in July 2020 and then moved to Djibouti in October 
2020, residing with his mother and family for five months as he continued to receive S3 
unemployment benefits. It is unclear when his benefits expired and whether he re-applied 
for them. Though Applicant admitted the behavior, he also indicated he did not 
understand or know better at the time. It is plausible Applicant feared contracting the 
COVID-19 virus and he decided to go home to live with his family . There is no 
documentary proof that leaving S 3 while receiving S3 unemployment benefits made 
Applicant ineligible to continue receiving unemployment benefits . AG ¶ 16 (e) has not 
been established and SOR ¶ 2.c is decided in Applicant’s favor. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
       
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
     
  
  
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
SOR¶ 2.d is a cross-allegation of the unexplained affluence allegation described 
under Guideline F, above. Comments made under Guideline F are incorporated here. AG 
¶ 16(e) applies. 
AG ¶ 17 provides conditions that could mitigate personal conduct security 
concerns. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a) the individual  mad e prompt,  good-faith efforts to correct the omission,  
concealment,  or falsification before being confronted with the facts;  
(c) the offense is so minor, or so much time has passed, or the behavior is  
so i
nfrequent, or it happened under such unique circumstances that it is  
unlikely to recur  and  does not cast doubt  on the individual's reliability,  
trustworthiness, or  good judgment;  
(d) the individual has acknowledged the behavior and obtained counseling  
to c
hange the be havior or taken other positive steps to alleviate the  
stressors, circumstances, or factors that  contributed to untrustworthy,  
unreliable, or  other inappropriate behavior, and such behavior is  unlikely to  
recur;  and  
(e) the individual has  ta ken positive steps to reduce or eliminate vulnerability  
to exploitation,  manipulation, or duress.  
None of t
he above mitigating conditions apply to the facts of this case. For reasons 
expressed in comments under Guideline F and incorporated here, Applicant is unable to 
mitigate personal conduct security concerns. 
Whole-Person Analysis  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) The nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
14 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
     
     
    
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
       
    
 
  
    
    
   
  
    
     
 
  
     
 
 
      
     
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. I have incorporated my 
comments under Guidelines B, E, and F in my whole-person analysis. Since this case is 
decided on the written record, I had no opportunity to question Applicant about any of the 
security concerns in the case, and had no opportunity to observe his demeanor and 
thereby assess his credibility. 
Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts concerning 
Applicant's eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. I conclude Applicant failed to 
mitigate the security concerns raised in this case. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline B:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 1.a:   For Applicant 
Subparagraphs 1.b-1.f:  Against Applicant 
Paragraph 2, G
 uideline E:   AGAIN
ST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph 2.a-2.c  For Applicant 
Subparagraph 2.d:  Against Applicant 
Paragraph 3, G uideline F:   AGAIN
ST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph 3.a:  Against Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Gatha LaFaye 
Administrative Judge 
15 