 
 
                                                              
           
             
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
       
     
   
 
 
      
          
     
       
      
     
     
    
       
   
 
_____________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS  
In the  matter of:  )  
 )  
 XXXXXXXXXXXX  )   ISCR Case No. 22-01359  
 )  
Applicant for Security Clearance  )  
Appearances  
For Government: Brian Farrell, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Sean Rogers, Esq. 
01/13/2025 
Decision  
KATAUSKAS, Philip J., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not provide sufficient evidence to mitigate the national security 
concern arising from his personal conduct. He did provide evidence sufficient to mitigate 
his criminal conduct and drug involvement. Applicant’s eligibility for access to classified 
information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted h is security clearance application (SCA) on September 11, 
2019. On December 22 , 2022, the Department of Defense (DOD) sent Applicant a 
Statement of Reasons (SOR) alleging that h is circumstances raised security concerns 
under Guideline J (criminal conduct), Guideline H (drug involvement and substance 
misuse), and Guideline E (personal conduct) . This action was taken under Executive 
Order (E.O.) 10865 , Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 
1960), as amended, as well as Department of Defense Directive 5220.6, Defense 
Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended 
(Directive). The Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified 
Information (AG), effective within the Defense Department on June 8, 2017, apply here. 
1 
 
 
          
      
        
        
     
 
 I convened  the  hearing  as  scheduled. Government  Exhibits  (GE) 1  through  6  were  
admitted  without  objection. Applicant  testified  and  submitted  Applicant’s Exhibits (AE) A  
through  R  which  were  admitted  without objection.  He also  called  four  character witnesses  
who  testified  on  his behalf. Email  correspondence  dated  June  18,  2024,  from  the  
administrative  judge  to  both  counsel was marked  as Hearing  Exhibit 1  (HE  1)  and  
admitted without objection.  DOHA received  the transcript (Tr.) on  July 24, 2024.  
 
     
 
      
     
        
        
  
 
    
 
       
      
        
          
  
 
          
           
  
 
       
         
     
 
      
       
           
          
          
       
 
 
Applicant answered the SOR on March 23, 2023 (Answer) and requested a 
hearing before an administrative judge. Department Counsel was ready to proceed on 
April 11, 2023. The case was assigned to me on November 6, 2023. On May 30, 2024, 
the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) notified Applicant that the hearing 
was scheduled to be conducted by video teleconference on July 16, 2024. 
Procedural Issue  
Applicant’s brief accompan ying his Answer requested as an alternative remedy 
that he be considered for a waiver with appropriate conditions, as authorized by Security 
Executive Agent Directive (SEAD) 4, Appendix C. I explained that DOD has not yet issued 
implementing regulations or guidelines under that SEAD that would allow the issuance of 
such an order. (Tr. 13; HE 1.) 
Findings of Fact  
Under Guideline J, the SOR alleged that in January 2020 Applicant was arrested 
and charged with three felony counts of distribution of marijuana and three felony counts 
of distribution of marijuana on or near school property. It also alleged that in May 2020 he 
pled guilty to two misdemeanor counts of distribution of marijuana. (SOR ¶ 1.a.) He 
admitted those allegations, with explanations. (Answer.) 
Under Guideline H, the SOR alleged that Applicant sold marijuana on October 4, 
12, and 30, 2017. (SOR ¶ 2.a.) He admitted this allegation , noting that he pled guilty to 
lesser charges and that the original charges were not prosecuted. (Answer.) 
Under Guideline E, the SOR alleged that Applicant deliberately falsified his SCA 
by failing to disclose the information alleged under Guideline H. (SOR ¶ 3.a.) He denied 
that he “intentionally or deliberately” answered the question incorrectly. (Answer.) 
Applicant is 28 years old, never married, and has no children. His father served 27 
years in the U.S. Navy, and Applicant was born overseas. They moved around frequently 
but settled in State A , where Applicant went to hig h school and college. He enrolled in 
college in the fall of 2014 . His first years ’ grades were not that good, so he took a fifth 
year. He was on the Dean’s List both semesters his last year . His m ajor was Political 
Science, and his minor was Homeland Security and Global Security Politics. He 
graduated in May 2019. (GE 1; Tr. 25-26.) 
2 
 
 
         
        
          
        
             
         
           
       
   
 
        
        
         
      
 
         
          
         
         
        
            
    
 
      
          
        
      
            
          
        
     
 
        
 
 
       
          
          
        
  
 
        
           
   
 
After graduation , Applicant moved to his parents’ home , then in State B. For 
employment, he split his time between jobs as a Golf cours e greens keeper and an 
associate at a sporting goods store . He next worked as a driver for a kitchen and bath 
company and as a carpenter’s apprentice, but he worked mostly as an apprentice. During 
those periods, he applied to defense contractors, which had a large presence in that area 
of State B. It took him two years to get an interview , and his most recent employer was 
the first to offer him a job. He took that job and started in January 2020. Due to his current 
clearance suspension, he was terminated in January 2023 by that employer, which is his 
current clearance sponsor. (Tr. 32-35, 50-51.) 
In October 2017, Applicant got some marijuana from a source and sold it to make 
some money. That took place near his college campus , where he lived . He has never 
used marijuana himself or other illegal drug s. It was a small school , and it was easy to 
get marijuana and “make some quick money.” (Tr. 26-27; GE 1.) 
One day after a class in August 2018 , Applicant received a voice m ail from a 
Special Agent G. Applicant called him back. The Agent said he had six indictments out 
for Applicant, three felonies for distribution of marijuana and three for distributing near 
school grounds. The Agent said if he helped him, there would be no need to go to court. 
Applicant did not know for whom the Agent worked. The Agent never took him to court, 
never took him to the police station, and never took him to a courthouse “[T]hat’s when I 
became [an] informant.” (GE 6; Tr. 27-28.) 
Applicant was “a little scared.” It was the Agent ’s suggestion that he become a 
confidential informant. He was to give the Agent one to three names every other week . 
Applicant would have to work around his class schedu le. He worked to the best of his 
ability to help the Agent “take down more people, and [the Agent] “would want more and 
more. And it went on pretty much like that until I graduated and when I stopped hearing 
from him.” The Agent knew that once Applicant graduated, he would move back home to 
State B. The Agent knew his address, and Applicant’s cellphone number was the same. 
After graduation, he did not even hear once from the Agent. (Tr. 29-31.) 
Applicant was asked if there was any danger associated with working as an 
informant. He answered: 
Yeah, of course. There always is when you’re dealing with drugs at 
any time. But I outweighed the danger versus the choices I had made and 
realized that if I was going to have a chance to graduate and get my degree 
and put all of this behind me, that this was going to be my best option to do 
it. (Tr. 30.) 
The following are summarized excerpts from GE 6, an undated chronological write-
up of Applicant’s assistance as a Confidential Informant (CI) that he prepared for this 
hearing: (Tr. 87.) 
3 
 
 
         
            
    
          
        
     
       
       
           
          
    
 
       
      
          
         
           
        
      
 
    
       
     
   
 
        
        
        
          
     
 
       
     
      
 
          
     
       
      
        
      
 
        
      
        
          
Later the same week as Applicant’s call from Agent G in August 
2018, they met in a nearby park. The Agent picked him up in a black sedan. 
The Agent showed him documents and indictments, stating they had audio 
and video evidence of him selling marijuana on three separate occasions. 
He was not shown the evidence, nor did he ask to see it. The Agent said 
Applicant was scheduled to appear in court on January 25, 2019, or he 
could begin work as a CI to show the judge he was cooperating. In that way, 
Applicant could “help himself.” The Agent told Applicant that he was to set 
up three persons in deals in the same way he, Applicant, had been set up. 
He signed some papers that he would act as a CI. He did not remember 
what the papers were. (GE 6 at 1.) 
Applicant began as a C I in Sept ember 2018, working around his 
class schedule. Agent G would provide him with money to purchase 
marijuana for each set-up. He wore a wire and a camera under his clothes 
and was told to get each sale on tape. After each purchase, he met with the 
Agent, turned over the marijuana, and filled out a detailed report. He was to 
make three purchases from each person . As it turned out , each of the 
persons he set up were students at the college. (GE 6 at 1-2.) 
The first person Applicant met in September was Stan. In September 
and Oct ober 2018, he set up three meetings with St an to purchase 
marijuana. At each purchase, Applicant got audio and video evidence, then 
reported back to the Agent, and filled out a report. (GE 6 at 1.) 
In December 2018, Applicant set up the second person , Mac. 
Because the semester was coming to an end, he was only able to make 
one purchase from Mac. Because that deal happened in a car, Applicant 
was unable to get Mac’s face on video but got audio, reported to the Agent, 
and filled out a report. (GE 6 at 2.) 
In February 2019, Applicant began to set up meetings with Chip. On 
February 19, Applicant met at Chip’s house near campus , made one 
purchase, and made the usual report to the Agent. (GE 6 at 2.) 
In March 2019, Applicant made numerous attempts to set up more 
meetings with Chip . Due to schedule conflicts, it was not until April 4 that 
Applicant was able to make a purchase. He made his usual report back to 
the Agent. In May Applicant contacted Chip about buying more marijuana . 
Chip told him he was done selling marijuana for the semester. Applicant 
relayed that information to the Agent. (GE 6 at 3.) 
The Agent never told Applicant when he would be done as a CI but 
said Applicant could “help myself as long as I wanted to.” Applicant’s last 
communication with the Agent was via text on May 2, 2019, not long before 
graduation. He gave the Agent the name of a person he knew was selling 
4 
 
 
      
       
  
 
    
           
 
 
     
        
           
    
         
       
          
  
 
      
        
      
           
           
 
 
         
               
      
 
         
                
        
          
           
       
           
  
 
         
         
      
           
              
       
     
       
       
marijuana, said he did not know his phone number, and would try to get it. 
The Agent just said “okay.” He never heard anything from the Agent after 
that. (GE 6 at 3.) 
Applicant testified about completing his SCA in September 2019. He was asked 
what was going through his mind when he answered “no” to the question whether he had 
sold illegal drugs. He answered: 
“A simple answer, I lied and I knew that I was lying. But I thought it 
was my best chance at getting a clearance for something that I didn’t think 
was in my life anymore . . . [I]t was a mistake I made when I was – when [I] 
was younger and much more stupid. But it had been three-plus years at that 
point, or two-plus years since I had – I hadn’t heard from [the Agent]. I hadn’t 
heard from anyone . . . I figured that it was something that [the Agent] had 
found a way to sweep under the rug and that bit was no longer – it was gone 
from my life.” (Tr. 37-38.) 
About five months later , in January 2020, Applicant was entering the gate of the 
military station where he worked. He had just been issued his CAC (Common Access 
Card) a few days earlier. The guard told him the CAC was not scanning. His drivers 
license was scanned, and he was told to pull over. He was told there was a fugitive 
warrant for his arrest. He was taken to jail at the military station and held overnight. He 
posted bond and was released the next day. (Tr. 40-43.) 
When Applicant was released , he drove to State A [where the indictments were 
issued]. The judge in State A said he did not have a court date for him until May [2020]. 
He released me on “good conscience and said, ‘I’ll see you in May’.” (Tr. 43.) 
Applicant was able to return to work for the entire time [before the May 2020 
hearing]. He gave his then boss “a bit of an update on what was going on and why I was 
missing a few days here and there in the office.” He had also made his FSO [Facility 
Security Officer] aware of the situation . In May, his “security clearance popped in JPAS 
[Joint Personnel Adjudication System] .” He “came in . . . and told her [the FSO] 
everything.” He kept his CAC and was able to get on station, although he rarely needed 
to come in. He continued to work on a foreign sales project but could no longer access 
classified information. (Tr. 43-45.) 
Agent G did not attend Applicant’s May 2020 court hearing in State A. The judge 
thought it strange that Agent G waited three years before filing the fugitive arrest [warrant] 
in early January 2020 . His lawyer explained that Applicant had turned his “life around” 
and had a job that required a security clearance. The judge said : “If I were to continue 
working and . . . staying the straight path, he would drop all felonies down and give me 
the bare minimum of two misdemeanors with all time served in the hope that it would not 
affect my job.” Applicant knew jail time was possible, six months per charge, but the judge 
suspended all 12 months. Applicant paid court fees, had his driver’s license suspended, 
and is on unsupervised probation until May 4, 2025, and shall not violate any of the laws 
5 
 
 
         
    
 
           
         
          
       
          
 
 
          
          
    
       
 
       
             
      
            
           
         
           
  
 
         
       
     
    
 
           
         
       
 
             
           
         
             
            
              
            
    
 
          
     
           
         
of State A during that period. Other than the clearance problem, it did not have “a negative 
effect” on his job. (Tr. 45-47; GE 5.) 
At Applicant’s May 2020 hearing, the judge had pulled his college transcript. The 
judge saw he made Dean’s List while doing confidential informant work. His character 
was good, he understood the mistakes he made , and was trying for the best possible 
outcome. He believes that “heavily weighed” in why the judge gave him the light sentence. 
He has not been involved in any criminal activity since [2017]. “Not so much as a 
speeding ticket.” (Tr. 48-49.) 
Applicant learned lessons from selling marijuana and not being truthful about it in 
his SCA. “I would never . . . put myself in a situation like that again. I can clearly see how 
. . . it’s affected my life, potentially affecting my entire career . . . I would never be stupid 
enough to put myself in that type of position again where I would have to lie.” (Tr. 49.) 
Since the 2017 events that led to his convictions, Applicant has moved away from 
the small college campus area where it was easy to obtain marijuana. He no longer 
associates with people selling marijuana. He would not associate in the future with people 
he knew were selling marijuana. Today he is more mature than he was in 2017 and 2019. 
He can be trusted to safeguard classified material. He has pledged to have nothing to do 
with marijuana or any other illegal drugs in the future. (Tr. 50-53.) In substantial conformity 
with AG ¶ 26(b)(3), AE G is his written statement of intent to abstain from all drug 
involvement in the future. 
Applicant’s CAC expired on January 6, 2023 . He was unable to get it renewed . 
The specific reason was that this clearance issue “was hanging out there in [his] 
background.” He could not access his Government computer, so his employer temporarily 
terminated him, on January 6, 2023. (Tr.35, 50-51.) 
Applicant was referred to GE 1, his SCA, Section 23 at 34 and his answer to the 
question whether in the last seven years he had trafficked in illegal drugs. He reiterated 
that he deliberately lied in answering “No” to this question. [alleged in the SOR]. (Tr. 54.) 
Applicant was referred to GE 1, Section 22 at 33 and the question s about his 
police record. The first question asked whether in the last seven years, he had been 
charged, convicted, sentenced, or on probation for a crime in any court, to which he had 
answered “No.” He testified that this was a deliberate lie. This was not alleged in the SOR. 
Department C ounsel did not move to amend the SOR. The second question asked 
whether he had ever been charged with an offense involving alcohol or drugs, to which 
he had answered “No.” He testified that this was a lie. This was not alleged in the SOR . 
Department Counsel did not move to amend the SOR. (Tr. 55.) 
Applicant was referred to GE 2 at 3, an interrogator y that asked whether he had 
ever sold any marijuana. He answered “Yes” and said “3” as to the “Number of Sales” 
and indicated between October 4, 2017 and October 30, 2017. He agreed that those were 
just the three times he had been caught. He also agreed that his answer was not entirely 
6 
 
 
           
         
           
  
 
         
          
             
          
             
     
           
  
 
       
             
           
        
         
  
 
         
         
            
       
       
         
   
 
 
      
             
    
           
 
 
 
accurate: “[I sold] the three times that I was caught and one time before that. ” This last 
sale was not alleged in the SOR. Department Counsel did not move to amend the SOR. 
(Tr. 59-60.) (The record does not show the date he received the interrogatories , but his 
responses were verified on December 14, 2022.) 
Applicant was referred to GE 2 at 9, second full paragraph of the personal subject 
interview (PSI), beginning “In 2017.” That paragraph reported that for one month [not 
stated], he sold marijuana on the weekends to eight to ten regular customers . He was 
confronted by his hearing testimony that he “sold once to one other person,” which is 
contradicted by his PSI, which he had an opportunity to correct and did adopt. He was 
asked “which is true?” He answered: “What’s in the subject interview is what ’s true. ” 
These sales were not alleged in the SOR . Department Counsel did not move to amend 
the SOR. (Tr. 60-66.) 
When Applicant was arrested at his military base in January 2020, he informed his 
then boss. His FSO found out in May 2020. He did not inform her earlier, because he was 
afraid he would be fired “on the spot.” He admitted he was not “entirely forthcoming to 
[his] FSO.” He told her everything, from the beginning in 2017, what had happened, where 
he was specifically in the process, and about the time going to court. He also told her he 
had lied on his [SCA]. (Tr. 71-73.) 
Applicant was referred to GE 2, his verified PSI at 10, second full paragraph. The 
PSI reports that he failed to report the six criminal charges on his SCA , because he 
assumed the charges had been dropped. He agreed with th e PSI. He “lied because of 
confusion . . . and was not sure how to accurately report something that had no 
paperwork . . . there were no indictments . . . [t]here was nothing.” He did not report the 
charges to his employer before being hired, because he thought they had been dropped. 
His employer only asked him “standard background check questions.” (Tr. 74-76.) 
Applicant was  asked  about  August  2018,  his  first confrontation  with  Agent  G.  Agent  
G.  showed  him  “paperwork which  I believe  were  . . . indictments  with  the  judge’s name  at  
the  bottom  and  all  that.” Applicant believed  the  “charges  weren’t charges yet as long  as I 
helped  the  detective.” The  Agent “made  it abundantly clear that they  [the  charges]  were  
going  to  go  away  and  I  would never have  to  show up  in  court.” After Applicant’s arrest in  
January  2020,  the  judge  told  him  Agent G  had  filed  the  warrant  for his arrest.  (Tr. 77-79.)  
Applicant is shown GE 4, county circuit court sealed indictments dated January 26, 
2018. He testified that this exhibit look s something like what the Agent showed him in 
August 2018. It is noted that the exhibit is signed by the foreman of the Grand Jury not a 
judge. That did not mean anything to Applicant at the time. He did not understand how a 
sealed grand jury indictment worked. (Tr. 80-82.) 
Character Evidence  
Professional Recognition.  While  working  for his employer [from January 2020  
until his temporary termination  in January 2023],  Applicant  was  a  member of  an  award-
7 
 
 
 
                 
  
 
                
      
  
 
                
        
        
        
    
 
          
 
               
      
        
      
 
 
           
              
      
    
 
         
       
           
               
        
   
     
  
         
             
              
       
    
        
winning  team  that was instrumental in landing  a  five-year multimillion  dollar Government  
contract.  He  had  full  responsibility “to  crunch  all  the  numbers and  account  for inflation”  
and  parts availability over five  years. His team  received  a  contract  award  from  the  
Government in January 2023. He  was one  of the  team  members specifically named  in  
that award  certificate. (AE I; Tr. 35-36.)  
Mr. K submitted a character reference letter dated January 12 , 2023, the salient 
points of which are summarized below: 
The author was a program manager while Applicant was employed full -time from 
January 6, 202 0 to January 3, 2023. He was Applicant’s overarching supervisor and is 
knowledgeable about his performance. 
He found Applicant to be an intelligent and motivated individual who was very 
organized, professional, and was developing into “an amazing analyst.” He distinguished 
himself as a dedicated, loyal, and responsible employee. He was well -respected by 
employees and the client team. The author looks forward to working with him again in the 
future. (AE K.) 
Ms. L testified as a fact witness and as a character witness as follows: 
The witness has worked for her employer at the military station since 1984 and has 
held security clearances for 40 years. She was working at the military station when 
Applicant started in January 2020. She is the Site Manager. There are a couple of FSOs, 
but she does the majority of the security work for her division. She does security-related 
briefings. (Tr. 107-110.) 
The witness knows why this hearing is being held. Her understanding is that Applicant 
gave her and his supervisor a call and reported what happened when he tried to access 
the military station that day [in January 2020]. This was before there was any follow -on 
action with his clearance, “just a quick letting you know.” (Tr. 110-111.) 
After Applicant self-reported, the witness submitted an incident report in JPAS on 
July 10, 2020. She then received a CAF (Consolidated Adjudication Facility) notification on 
August 3, 2020 requesting an e -QIP from Applicant , a new one to add the adverse 
information “he didn’t even know about.” “As soon as he reported that, we immediately . . . 
went into JPAS and did an adverse report reporting that incident.” He “self-reported it in July 
of 2020 . . . that’s when I submitted the incident report via JPAS.” Leading up to that report, 
he gave her information on being convicted in court of two misdemeanors. (Tr. 111-112.) 
The witness , her employer, and the Government customer “did not want to let 
[Applicant] go.” “So while we waited for . . . the outcome of the adjudication - - the customer 
allowed [him] to stay on while we waited for . . . something to come back.” His security status 
did not cause a security concern . The employer and the Government customer supported 
him. With her history of holding clearances for four decades, in her professional capacity, 
the witness did not have any problem with [Appl icant] staying on while [awaiting his 
8 
 
 
        
          
          
              
   
 
          
 
             
 
               
           
        
  
 
     
adjudication].” In her opinion, he should be granted a clearance ultimately. She trusts him 
as someone who would comply with rules that govern holding a clearance and handling 
classified information properly. She was aware that he had been arrested in January 2020. 
She recalled “the day that [he] came to both his supervisor and I and explained this to us , 
but unfortunately I maybe have the dates a little mixed up . . . .” (Tr. 114-117.) 
Ms. L also submitted a character reference letter dated January 13, 2023. (AE L.) 
Mr. M testified as a character witness as follows: 
The witness served 20 years in the Navy from 1984 until his retirement in 2004. He has 
been a defense contractor since his retirement. He has held security clearances for 39 years. 
He understands the importance of being entrusted with a Government clearance and 
safeguarding classified information. (Tr. 102-104.) 
 The  witness heard  about  Applicant  from  his son, who  had  gone  to  the  same  university.  
He first met him  face-to-face  in  July 2021  at  a  4th  of July party at  the  witness’ house. Over the  
years, he  and  Applicant spoke  by telephone  “every now and  then.” He’s had  face-to-face  
meetings with  him  at least three  times and  talk “on  the  phone  once  every month  or two.  (Tr. 
104.)  
 
     Applicant let  the  witness  know the  reason  for this hearing. The  witness said:  “[H]e’s a  super  
guy. He’s always  energetic. He  likes talking  to  people  .  . . He’s just a  easy-to-get-along-with-
kind  of individual.” Applicant told him  about  his misconduct in  2017. “It  surprised  me  a  lot  that  
he  actually did something  like  that.” It  caught him  “kind  of off  guard  . . .  [yes] very big surprise.” 
The  witness said that if “[Applicant]  gave  his  word  that he  would  never again engage  in that  
kind  of misconduct,  the  witness  would  “certainly” trust him.  The  witness thinks Applicant has  
“learned  a  lot from  his past  and  in a  very, very good  way.” Asked  whether Applicant should  
be  entrusted  with  a  clearance, the  witness  said:  “I have  no  problem  with  him  having  a  
clearance  . . . I really think his past is his past.  He’s not that person  anymore  . . . [Applicant]  
has a strong love for his country  . . . he’s a true patriot.”  (Tr. 105-106.)  
 
        
 
 
     
 
          
            
            
    
 
         
        
        
           
Mr. M also submitted a character reference letter dated February 13, 2023. (AE 
M.) 
Ms. N testified as a character witness as follows: 
The witness works at the military station where Applicant was employed. She is a DOD 
civilian employee. She is a program manager and lead for a platform with various missions 
for sales overseas. She has been in that position for three years. She met Applicant when he 
came into her program. He was a program analyst and reported to her. (Tr. 17-19.) 
The witness testified about Applicant ’s performance as a program analyst. "[He] 
performed his duties very well. He was timely, he was responsive . . . if he had a question on 
anything, any sort of tasking . . he would ask me directly what . . . exactly needed to be done.” 
She testified further that the job had “a lot of complexity and sensitivities . . . and some of the 
9 
 
 
        
 
 
       
 
 
data and content . . . is classified .” He handled his “regular job duties with ease . . . and the 
sensitive and classified data he was privy to with care.” (Tr. 19-20.) 
The witness was asked whether Applicant needed oversight and close supervision. 
The witness explained: 
 “No,  no, that was  one  other great thing  about  [Applicant]  and  his  
character  was  . . . we were  working  in the  covid environment when  he  was  
an  employee  supporting  me. And  the  majority  of  the  time  we worked  via . . 
. telework . .  . [Applicant]  performed  his day-to-day  job  duties with  no  issues 
at all.”   
 
               
          
   
 
       
 
         
  
 
    
            
         
     
          
    
  
 
          
  
 
        
        
        
        
    
 
      
  
 
           
      
        
       
     
She testified she trusts him 100% to hold a clearance. She knows that this hearing is 
due to two misdemeanor convictions he had seven years ago. Notwithstanding that, she is 
still okay with having him back and holding a clearance. (Tr. 20-22.) 
Ms. N also submitted a character reference letter dated January 23, 2023, (AE N.) 
Ms. O submitted a character reference letter dated January 1 8, 2023, the salient 
points of which are summarized below: 
The author worked closely with Applicant from January 6, 2020 to November 3, 2021. 
They were on the same team, and as the senior analyst, she was his mentor. He was efficient, 
detail-oriented, an organized professional, and an asset to the team. He was always prompt 
to work and put in extra time to meet deadlines without hesitation . He is a quick learner , 
responsible, and a dedicated responsible employee. His commitment to exceed in all of his 
responsibilities were apparent in day-to-day operations. The author looks forward to working 
with him in the future. (AE O.) 
Mr. P submitted a character reference letter dated January 1 6, 2023, the salient 
points of which are summarized below: 
The author met Applicant at a young age when his father and the author worked 
together at a U.S. Navy station. He watched Applicant play high school lacrosse and grow 
into a mature adult during and after his university studies. At all times, the author has found 
Applicant to be dependable, reliable, hard -working, conscientious, honest , and a patriotic 
citizen. He highly recommends him for future Government and private employment. (AE P.) 
Mr. Q submitted a character reference letter dated February 3, 2023, the salient 
points of which are summarized below: 
The author is a retired Naval officer with over 32 years of active duty military service. 
He became acquainted with Applicant in 20 10, while working with his father at a Navy 
programs office. He and Applicant’s father are close friends, and he had the opportunity to 
follow Applicant’s accom plishments as he grew up and matured into the confident, self -
motivated, and driven young man he is today. 
10 
 
 
 
          
          
  
         
       
      
 
        
 
          
        
     
        
             
             
 
 
                   
         
             
        
             
         
                
    
      
           
  
 
 
 
 
Shortly after Applicant’s university graduation, he became employed at a Naval command. 
Since the author work ed in the same close -knit field, he came to know that Applicant had 
established himself as a dependable analyst who is liked by his co-workers and supervisors. 
He has unlimited potential to make increasing levels of contributions to the success of our 
country in this line of work. The author has no reservations that he has demonstrated 
outstanding character and highly recommends him for Government employment. (AE Q.) 
Mr. R testified as a character witness as follows: 
The witness and Applicant date back to their first year in college, when they lived on 
the same hallway in the same dormitory. They did not have the same majors but were in 
similar fields and in the same academic building. He did not complete college in four years, 
because due to some family matters, he left in his senior year. During that time apart, he did 
not stay in person al contact with A pplicant but “sustained . . . a close friendship over the 
phone.” For the better part of a year -and-half now, they live 10 to 12 miles from each other. 
(Tr. 94-96.) 
The witness works for a social media marketing agency. He does not need a security 
clearance. He is aware of the reason for this hearing , i.e., Applicant sold marijuana during 
college and he is now trying to get his clearance. The witness has never known Applicant to 
use marijuana or any illegal drug. If Applicant gave his word that he is not going to have 
anything to do with selling or possessing marijuana, the witness would believe him “one 
hundred percent.” He believes Applicant is “one of, if not the most dependable and reliable 
people I’ve ever met in all my days . . . [t]hroughout the course of our now 10-year friendship.” 
Applicant is “not one to break trust or . . . act in a way that’s not in accordance with rules and 
regulations.” The witness was not around Applicant in college when he was selling marijuana. 
The witness and Applicant lived together for the first, second, and third years [of college] but 
not in their senior year. The witness did not live with Applicant in 2017. (Tr. 96-101.) 
Law and Policies  
It  is well established  that no  one  has a  right to  a  security clearance. As the   
Supreme  Court held, “the  clearly consistent standard indicates that   security  
determinations should err, if they must,  on  the  side  of denials.” Department of the  Navy  
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).   
When  evaluating  an  applicant’s suitability for a   security clearance, an    
administrative  judge  must  consider  the  adjudicative  guidelines.  These  guidelines  are  
flexible  rules of law that apply together with  common  sense  and  the  general factors of the  
whole-person  concept.  An  administrative  judge  must consider all  available and  reliable 
information  about  the  person,  past and  present,  favorable  and  unfavorable, in making  a  
decision. The  protection  of  the  national security is the  paramount  consideration.  AG ¶  
¶2(b) requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning  personnel being  considered  for national   
security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.”  
11 
 
 
         Under Directive ¶  E3.1.14,  the  Government  must present evidence  to  establish  
controverted  facts alleged  in  the  SOR. Under Directive ¶  E3.1.15,  then  the  applicant  is  
responsible  for presenting  “witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate  facts admitted  by applicant or proven  by Department Counsel . . . .” The  applicant  
has the  ultimate  burden of persuasion in seeking a  favorable security decision.  
 
 
 
             
 
 
         
   
 
 
          
       
           
          
            
               
              
 
 
        
   
 
 
Analysis  
Guideline J, Criminal Conduct  
The security concern for criminal conduct is set out in AG ¶ 30 as follows: 
Criminal activity   creates doubt about an   Applicant’s  judgment,  reliability, and   
trustworthiness. By its very nature, it calls into  question  a  person’s ability or   
willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations.  
The guideline notes conditions that could raise security concerns under AG ¶ 31. 
The disqualifying conditions applicable in this case are: 
(b)  evidence  (including,  but  not limited  to,  a  credible  allegation,  an  
admission, and  matters of official record) of criminal conduct,  regardless 
of whether the  individual was formally charged,  prosecuted,  or  
convicted; and   
(c)  individual is currently on  parole  or probation.  
Applicant admitted that he was arrested and charged with three felony counts of 
distribution of marijuana and three felony counts of distribution of marijuana near school 
property. He also admitted that in May 2020, he pled guilty to two misdemeanor counts 
of distribution of marijuana. Therefore, disqualifying condition AG ¶ 31(b) applies. He also 
admitted that he is on unsupervised probation until May 4, 2025. AG ¶ 31( c) was not 
alleged in the SOR. Therefore, it cannot be used as an independent basis for a denial. It 
is considered here in the whole-person analysis. See ISCR Case No. 03-20327 at 4 (App. 
Bd. Oct. 26, 2006). 
AG ¶ 32 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. The following 
conditions are potentially applicable: 
(a)  so  much  time  has elapsed  since  the  criminal behavior happened, or it happened  
under such  unusual  circumstances,  that  it  is unlikely to  recur  and  does not cast  
doubt on the individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;  and  
(d)  there is evidence  of successful rehabilitation; including  but not limited  to  the  
passage  of time  without recurrence  of criminal activity, restitution, compliance  
with  the  terms of parole or probation, job  training  or higher education, good  
employment record, or constructive community involvement.  
12 
 
 
        
          
           
             
        
   
 
 
        
        
 
 
        
        
     
       
       
    
        
        
         
   
 
   
 
         
 
 
   
 
        
 
 
 
 
Applicant’s criminal conduct occurred in 2017, quite some time ago . Its effects, 
however, are continuing, and he remains on unsupervised probation until May 4, 2025. 
As of the hearing date, he has not been involved in any criminal activity since 2017, “not 
so much as a speeding ticket.” His conduct is unlikely to recur. Even though he has not 
yet successfully completed his probation period, it appears likely that he will do so. I find 
that AG ¶¶ 32(a) and (b) have mitigated SOR ¶ 2. 
Guideline H: Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse  
Under AG H, illegal drug involvement may raise questions about a person’s ability 
or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations. AG ¶ 24 sets forth the concern, 
as follows: 
The illegal use of [or involvement with] controlled substances, to include the 
misuse of prescription and non -prescription drugs, and the use of other 
substances that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual's reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may lead 
to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises questions about 
a person's ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations . 
Controlled substance means any "controlled substance" as defined in 21 U.S.C. 
§ 802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in this guideline to 
describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
In this case, the following disqualifying condition applies: 
AG ¶ 25(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance , including . . . purchase, 
sale, or distribution. 
The potentially applicable mitigating conditions here are quoted below: 
AG ¶  26(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent, or  
happened  under such  circumstances that it is  unlikely to  recur or does not  
cast doubt on  the  individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or   good  
judgment; and  
AG  ¶ 26(b)  the  individual  acknowledges his  or  her  drug involvement  and  
substance  misuse,  provides evidence  of  actions taken  to  overcome this  
problem, and  has  established  a  pattern  of  abstinence,  including,  but not  
limited to:  
(1) disassociation  from drug-using  associates and contacts;  
(2) changing  or avoiding the environment where drugs were used; and  
(3) providing  a signed  statement of intent to  abstain from all drug involvement  
13 
 
 
    
 
        
        
        
          
       
   
       
 
 
      
      
   
          
         
   
     
    
      
       
 
 
         
        
 
 
        
        
         
       
 
 
           
         
      
         
         
         
      
 
 
 
    
and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future  involvement or misuse     
is grounds for revocation of national security eligibility.  
Marijuana is a Schedule I controlled substance, and possession of it is regulated by 
the federal government under the Controlled Substances Act. 21 U.S.C. § 811 et seq. 
The knowing or intentional possession and use of any such substance is unlawful and 
punishable by imprisonment, a fine or both. 21 U.S.C. § 844 . In an October 25, 2014 
memorandum, the Director of National Intelligence affirmed that the use of marijuana is 
a security concern. James R. Clapper, Director of National Intelligence, Memorandum: 
Adherence to Federal Laws Prohibiting Marijuana Use (October 25, 2014). See also 
http://www.dea.gov/druginfo/ds.shtml 
On December 21, 2021, the Director of National Intelligence signed the 
memorandum, Security Executive Agent Clarifying Guidance Concerning Marijuana for 
Agencies Conducting Adjudications of Persons Proposed for Eligibility for Access to 
Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position. It emphasizes that federal 
law remains unchanged with respect to the illegal use, possession, production and 
distribution of marijuana. Individuals who hold a clearance or occupy a sensitive position 
are pr ohibited by law from using controlled substances. Disregard of federal law 
pertaining to marijuana (including prior medicinal or recreational marijuana use) remains 
relevant, but not determinative, to adjudications of eligibility. Agencies are required to use 
the “whole-person concept” stated under SEAD 4, to determine whether the applicant’s 
behavior raises a security concern that has not been mitigated. 
Applicant admitted that he sold marijuana on three separate occasions in October 
2017. Therefore, disqualifying condition AG ¶ 25(c) has been established . The next 
question is whether any mitigating conditions apply. 
I considered mitigating condition AG ¶ 26(a). Applicant’s sales of marijuana 
occurred in October 2017 . That was over seven years ago and happened under 
circumstances unlikely to recur. Although he is still on probation until May 4, 2025, his 
successful completion appears likely. I find that AG ¶ 26(a) applies and mitigates SOR ¶ 
2. 
I have also considered mitigating condition AG ¶ 26(b). Since the 2017 events that 
led to Applicant’s convictions, he has moved away from the college town with easy access 
to marijuana. He no longer associates with individuals buying or selling marijuana. He 
testified that he is more mature and would not in the future associate with individuals he 
knew were selling marijuana. There is no evidence that he has had any drug involvement 
since 2017. Finally, he has proffered his written statement of intent to abstain from all 
drug involvement in the future. I find that AG ¶ 26(b) applies and mitigates SOR ¶ 2. 
Guideline E  - Personal Conduct  
AG ¶ 15 explains why personal conduct is a security concern stating: 
14 
 
 
 
 
        
     
      
 
 
         
          
   
    
 
    
  
 
        
            
         
        
      
 
       
          
    
 
      
   
 
          
        
        
          
          
         
          
            
       
  
       
           
Conduct involving  questionable judgment, lack of candor,  dishonesty,  or  
unwillingness to  comply with  rules and  regulations can  raise  questions  
about an  individual’s reliability, trustworthiness and   ability to   protect  
classified  information. Of  special interest  is any failure  to  provide  truthful  
and  candid answers during  the  security clearance  process or any  other 
failure to cooperate with the security clearance process.  
More specifically, in assessing an allegation of deliberate falsification, I consider 
not only the allegation and applicant’s answer but all relevant circumstances. See AG ¶¶ 
2(a) and (d)(1) -(9) (explaining the “whole-person” concept and factors). A statement or 
omission is false or dishonest when it is made deliberately (knowingly and willfully). 
The SOR alleged that Applicant deliberately falsified material facts by failing to 
disclose in his September 11, 2019 SCA that in the past seven years he had been 
involved in the illegal trafficking, transfer, or sale of marijuana. He denied that allegation. 
This alleged conduct falls squarely within AG ¶ 16(a), which states in pertinent part: 
[D]eliberate omission, concealment, or falsification of relevant facts from 
any personnel security questionnaire . . . used to conduct investigations. 
Applicant testified about completing this SCA and was asked what was going 
through his mind when he answered “no” to whether he had sold illegal drugs. He 
answered unequivocally: “I lied and I knew that I was lying. But I thought it was my best 
chance at getting a clearance . . . .” He repeated his testimony about deliberately lying on 
this point later in the hearing. AG ¶ 16(a) has been established. 
AG ¶ 17 enumerates seven conditions that may mitigate security concerns . AG ¶ 
17(a) states in pertinent part the only condition here that may mitigate disqualifying 
condition AG ¶ 16(a): 
[The] individual made prompt, good -faith efforts to correct the omission, 
concealment, or falsification before being confronted with the facts. 
After completing his September 2019 SCA which started the clearance process , 
Applicant was served with interrogatories . He responded and verified his responses on 
December 14, 2022. One asked how many times he had sold marijuana . He answered 
three times between October 4 and October 30, 2017 . Asked about that response at 
hearing, Applicant testified that those were just the three times he had been caught . He 
agreed that that was not what the interrogatory asked. He then further testified that “[I 
sold] the three times that I was caught and one time before that.” At that point, his total 
sales of marijuana went from three to four. This fact was not alleged in the SOR. 
Department Counsel did not move to amend the SOR to allege this additional sale. 
Applicant next testified about his PSI. Specifically, he was asked about its report 
that for one month (not stated), he sold marijuana on the weekends to eight to ten regular 
15 
 
 
       
           
        
           
        
 
             
     
    
           
       
        
         
       
      
        
      
 
 
 
          
               
           
             
      
            
       
            
 
 
 
     
     
          
        
       
customers. He was confronted by his hearing testimony that he “sold once to one other 
person,” which was contradicted by his PSI, that he had an opportunity to correct. He was 
asked “which is true?” He answered: “What’s in the subject interview is what’s true.” At 
that point , his total sales l ikely exceeded ten. This fact was not alleged in the SOR. 
Department Counsel did not move to amend the SOR to allege these additional sales. 
The foregoing was the factual predicate to assess whether AG ¶ 17(a) applies to 
Applicant’s deliberate falsification of his SCA in September 2019. By that time, he had 
been recruited by Agent G (in August 2018) and had completed his stint as a CI. His first 
opportunity to correct his deliberate falsification in his SCA was when he responded to 
interrogatories in December 2022. Asked in those in terrogatories how many marijuana 
sales he had made, he responded, “3” between October 4 and 30, 2017. His response, 
therefore, could be deemed a correction to his initial falsification. In his response, he did 
not, however, admit that his falsification was deliberate. To the contrary, in his Answer, 
he insisted that his failure to disclose his marijuana sales was not intentional or deliberate. 
He persisted in that position. It was not until his testimony at hearing that he said: “I lied 
and I knew that I was lying.” Mitigating condition AG ¶ 17(a) does not apply. 
Conduct not alleged  in  a  SOR cannot be  an  independent basis for a  denial.  See  
ISCR  Case  No.  03-20327  at  4  (App. Bd.  Oct. 26, 2006). It  may be  relevant for credibility  
determinations or in performing  a  whole-person  analysis.  See, e.g.,  ISCR  Case  No.  15-
07369  at 3 (App. Bd. Aug. 16, 2017).  Applicant’s responses to interrogatories stated that  
he  sold marijuana  three  times during  October  2017. He then  testified  that there was one  
additional sale in  that  month.  He explained  at hearing  that  the  “three  times” were only 
when  he  had  been  “caught.” This  explanation  and  his failure  to  disclose  his  other eight to  
ten  sales in his interrogatory response  reflects negatively on  his credibility. Truthful and  
candid  answers during  the  security clearance  process,  not  hairsplitting, are  expected  from  
those seeking  positions  that require  the  responsible  handling  of the nation’s secrets.   
A second question in Applicant’s September 2019 SCA asked whether in the last 
seven years he had been charged with an offense involving drugs . He had answered 
“No.” He testified that this was a lie. This was not alleged in the SOR. Department Counsel 
did not move to amend the SOR to allege this failure as a deliberate falsification. By the 
time Applicant completed his SCA, he had spent almost a year as a CI for the Agent. He 
did so because he believed he had been charged with felonies for distribution of 
marijuana. Honesty and candor in the security clearance process should have compelled 
him to answer “Yes” to th is question. But he did not answer truthfully , which reflects 
negatively on his credibility. 
Whole-Person Concept  
I have carefully considered Applicant’s character evidence, which included seven 
reference letters and four testimonial appearances. Four of his reference letters were from 
professional colleagues who came to know him first-hand from working with him during 
his three years at his clearance sponsor. They described him as dedicated, loyal, and 
responsible. Notwithstanding knowing of his security clearance issue, they supported his 
16 
 
 
          
 
 
           
           
      
          
  
 
       
       
     
       
        
 
 
     
          
         
       
        
    
 
 
     
 
      
 
      
  
      
 
     
 
     
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
effort to gain a clearance. The reference letters and testimony described him as a 
commendable individual worthy of their trust. 
In addition to the foregoing evidence, while working for his clearance sponsor, 
Applicant was a member of a team that won a lucrative Government contract. H is 
responsibility in that effort was “to crunch all the numbers and account for inflation” and 
parts availability. He was one of the team members specifically named in th e award 
certificate. 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. AG ¶¶ 2(a) and (d)(1)-(9) 
(explaining the “whole-person” concept and factors). In my analysis above, I considered 
the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions and the whole -person concept in 
light of all the facts and circumstances surrounding this case. 
I have incorporated my comments under Guideline s J, H, and E in my whole -
person analysis and applied the adjudicative factors in AG ¶ 2(d). After weighing the 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions under th ose guidelines and evaluating all the 
evidence in the context of the whole person, I conclude Applicant has mitigated the 
security concerns raised by his criminal conduct and drug involvement, but he has not 
mitigated security concerns raised personal conduct. 
Formal Findings  
I make the following formal findings on the allegations in the SOR: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  J   FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  1.a:  For Applicant 
Paragraph  2, Guideline  H  FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 2.a  –  b:  For Applicant 
Paragraph  3, Guideline E  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  3.a:  Against Applicant 
17 
 
 
 
        
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
Conclusion  
I conclude that it is not clearly consistent with the interests of national security to 
grant Applicant eligibility for access to classified information. Clearance is denied. 
Philip J. Katauskas 
Administrative Judge 
18 