 
 
 
                                                              
 
 
                                                                                                                    
          
           
             
 
 
 
 
  
  
     
   
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
      
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEP
ARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 22-02129 
Appearances  
For Government: 
Aubrey De Angelis, Esquire, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: 
Nekeisha Campbell, Esquire 
Alan Lescht & Associates, P.C. 
12/02/2025 
Decision 
ROSS, Wilford H., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant has not mitigated the security concerns under Guidelines E (Personal 
Conduct) and B (Foreign Influence) . Eligibility for access to classified information is 
denied. 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
   
   
    
     
    
 
   
   
      
  
 
   
      
   
  
    
  
 
 
 
  
    
   
  
   
    
   
 
 
 
       
   
 
    
    
Statement  of the Case  
On June 6, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) 
issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under 
Guidelines E and B. The action was taken under Executive Order (EO) 10865, 
Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; 
Department of Defense ( DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security 
Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the 
adjudicative guidelines (AG) implemented by the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
Applicant responded to the SOR in writing (Answer) on July 25 , 2024, and 
requested a hearing before an administrative judge. Department Counsel was prepared 
to proceed on November 12, 2024. The case was assigned to me on April 10, 2025. The 
Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a Notice of Hearing on April 16, 
2025. I convened the hearing as scheduled on July 8, 2025. The Government offered 
Government Exhibits 1 through 9, which were admitted without objection. Applicant 
testified on her own behalf and submitted Applicant Exhibits A, B, and C. They were 
admitted without objection. DOHA received the transcript of the hearing (Tr.) on July 23, 
2025. This decision was delayed when all administrative judges were furloughed from 
October 1 through November 12, 2025, during a federal government shutdown due to a 
lapse in federal funding. 
Procedural Rulings  
At the hearing, the Government requested I take administrative notice of certain 
facts relating to the People’s Republic of China (China). Department Counsel provided a 
thirteen-page summary of the facts, supported by 21 Government documents pertaining 
to China, identified as HE I. The documents provide elaboration and context for the 
summary. I take administrative notice of the facts included in the U.S. Government 
reports. They are limited to matters of general knowledge, not subject to reasonable 
dispute. They are set out in the Findings of Fact. (Tr. 16-17.) 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 43 years old and married. She is employed by a defense contractor as 
a senior analyst. She began working for h er current employer in 2022 . She served on 
active duty with the Army from 2007 through 2012, receiving an Honorable Discharge. 
She subsequently served in the Army Reserve from 2012 through 2017. She worked for 
various government contractors and as a civilian employee in the Department of Defense 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
  
 
    
 
 
 
     
   
  
    
   
  
   
 
     
  
 
    
  
  
      
   
  
 
 
 
from 2012  until her dismissal from Federal service in 2019 f or the reasons stated in the  
SOR.  She now works for a civilian employer and is applying for a security clearance.  
(Government Exhibit  3  at Sections 12  and 17;  Applicant Exhibits B and C;  Tr.  21-24, 73 -
74, 100-102.)   
Paragraph 1 (Guideline E,  Personal Conduct)  
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance 
because she has engaged in conduct that shows poor judgment, untrustworthiness, or 
unreliability. 
Applicant admitted allegations 1.a and 1.e under this guideline with explanations. 
She denied allegations 1.b, 1.c, and 1.d under this guideline with explanations. 
Paragraph 2  (Guideline  B, Foreign Influence)  
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance 
because she has foreign contacts and interests that may be a national security concern 
and may result in divided allegiance. They may also be a national security concern if they 
create circumstances in which the individual may be manipulated or induced to help a 
foreign person, group, organization, or government in a way inconsistent with U.S. 
interests or otherwise made vulnerable to pressure of coercion by any foreign interest. 
Applicant admitted allegations 2.a and 2.b under this guideline with explanations. 
She denied allegation 2.c with explanations. 
Applicant worked in the intelligence field for the DoD for many years, beginning in 
the Army. Once she left active duty she started working as a civilian intelligence 
professional for one of the armed services. She did this as both a contractor and 
eventually as a Government employee. At the time of the incidents in question she was 
working as a Government employee, specifically as a Branch Chief for an Intelligence 
Agency. (Tr. 21-32.) 
Applicant was  born in China and is a naturalized American citizen.  Her father was  
a Chinese citizen who lived in China. He died in 2015. According to Applicant, she and  
her brother inherited her father’s  real estate in China. In 2017 her father’s  estate was  
settled and each of  them received approximately $250,000 to $350,000.  At this point  
Applicant became concerned and frustrated by Chinese currency  policies that restricted  
people from  sending more t han $50,000 a year  from  China to overseas banks.  (Tr.  20-
21,  32-33,  50-52, 88-90.)  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
 
    
    
   
   
  
   
   
    
  
     
 
    
    
  
    
    
    
 
    
   
   
  
   
  
  
    
 
 
      
  
   
 
   
 
   
     
According to Applicant, she had made an online friend (Ms. A) in China. Ms. A is 
one of the four friends set forth in allegation 2.c. For a long time in the online relationship 
Applicant and Ms. A did not exchange real names. Eventually, they did. During a trip to 
China in 2017 the two of them had dinner, along with Ms. A’s spouse, another friend from 
allegation 2.c. During dinner, the only time the two of them met personally, Applicant 
talked about her currency transfer issue. Ms. A at this point volunteered to act as a conduit 
for the money. Basically, Ms. A would use a n unnamed business contact to transfer the 
full amount in a single transaction to Applicant’s bank account in the United States. In 
return, Applicant would pay back Ms. A over time. This was agreed to by both parties. 
Ms. A fulfilled her part of the bargain and transferred the money. Applicant never learned 
the name of the person who transferred the money. She also fulfilled her part of the 
bargain and repaid Ms. A the money that was forwarded. There was no fee for the service. 
Since this transaction Ms. A and her spouse have left China and now live in Canada. She 
has had little contact with Ms. A since the transfer. (Tr. 34-36, 50-53, 90-96.) 
During this same trip, while in a different Chinese city, Applicant was approached 
by operatives of China’s Ministry of State Security (MSS). She was questioned about her 
trip to China and asked about her employment. Instead of truthfully identifying her 
employer, which was an Intelligence Agency in DoD, she lied and said she worked for the 
State Department and that she did not have access to classified information. She found 
this interview a very traumatic experience. (Tr. 38-42.) 
During this interview the operative from MSS discussed Applicant’s aunt and uncle, 
who are the people named in allegations 2.a and 2.b. Applicant testified that she is not 
close to these people, but became concerned when she learned that her relationship to 
them was known by the Chinese government, specifically MSS. After the interview 
Applicant went to the house of her aunt and uncle to assure herself that they had not been 
questioned. They assured her that they had not been questioned. She did not discuss the 
aunt and uncle in the interviews described below because she did not believe they fit 
within the confines of someone with whom she has “close or continuous contacts.” (Tr. 
42-46, 64.) 
The other two friends who are mentioned in allegation 2.c are schoolmates from 
elementary school. She would have dinner with them when she visited China. She did not 
believe that she needed to report them in the interviews even though there was some 
indication they had been contacted by MSS. She believed these two friends also did not 
fit the category of “close or continuous contacts.” (Answer; Tr. 47-50.) 
Upon her return to the United States Applicant appropriately reported her contact 
with the operatives from MSS to the Intelligence Agency. She was subsequently debriefed 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
   
 
   
   
  
  
 
   
    
     
  
  
 
     
  
   
 
 
    
    
 
by a security representative of the Intelligence Agency. According to Applicant, as stated 
in her Answer: 
When I told the [ Intelligence Agency] security representative that I lied to 
the MSS to avoid telling them I worked for the [Intelligence Agency] and was 
part of the intelligence community, she demanded to know why I lied to the 
MSS and that I should have just told them the truth. I truly felt she was 
blaming me and chastising me for lying to the Chinese authorities, so I was 
too scared to tell her about my friend who helped me moved [sic] funds out 
of China, which then snowballed into keeping that from every other person 
with whom I spoke. In addition, I honestly thought those two friends were 
completely unrelated to the MSS incident. 
During her testimony Applicant stated: 
And I felt that if I, if I could lie to the Chinese Government, if that was saying 
as something I did wrong, then I was really , then I was really afraid that if I 
said I was used [sic] a friend of mine to move money out of China than it 
would just be a, yes, it would just be a completely, it would be a huge thing 
and then I would get fired. And so I didn’t want to talk about. 
And also, because it [sic] thought that it was a thing that happened but did 
not impact on how the MSS incident went or because there was nothing 
else that happened with it as far as blackmailing or coercion or anything that 
was concerned, so. (Tr. 54-58, 96-97, 106-107.) 
After this initial interview, Applicant was subject to several additional interviews by 
various investigative agencies in approximately 2018 and 2019. She admits not telling the 
truth in these interviews about her four friends, her aunt and uncle, and the true facts of 
the money transfer discussed above. She continued to lie because she didn’t want to 
change her story. (Tr. 62-63, 107-110.) 
Applicant admits being interviewed at least twice by the FBI. (Allegation 1.b.) She 
lied several times to the FBI about the money transfer. Eventually, she failed a polygraph 
and at that time told the truth about the money transfer and the four friends discussed in 
allegation 2.c. (Tr. 60, 62-64, 110.) 
Applicant admits having an interview with the Defense Intelligence Agency. 
(Allegation 1.e.) She lied about the money transfer during this interview. (Tr. 59.) 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
    
  
  
 
     
   
    
  
 
   
  
 
     
    
   
   
    
 
   
   
 
      
   
  
 
     
   
   
  
  
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
Applicant denied having an interview with the Naval Criminal Investigative Service 
(NCIS) in February 2019. (Allegation 1.c.) Government Exhibit 9, further discussed below, 
confirms that she was interviewed by the F ederal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) and 
NCIS. Applicant testified that she was interviewed by a group of people in approximately 
2018. She did not know the agencies all of these people worked for. (Tr. 60-62.) 
Applicant generally denied allegation 1.d. This allegation has three parts. One part 
states that she lied during an interview with the Intelligence Agency. She did not admit or 
deny this allegation. Documentary and testimonial evidence confirms that she lied during 
this interview. 
The second part of allegation 1.d states that she gave differing stories to different 
supervisors about her foreign contacts in China and that the supervisors were able to 
compare notes and corroborate that she was changing her story depending on which 
supervisor was interviewing her . She stated in her Answer , “I did not provide different 
stories to different supervisors in October 2017. I only had one supervisor in October 
2017.” This allegation is based on documentary evidence in the record, specifically a 
Security Access Eligibility Report (SAER) prepared in September 2019. That document 
states, “[Applicant] provided different stories about her meetings with foreign contacts to 
different supervisors, who were able to corroborate that she was changing her story once 
the supervisors compared notes.” There is sufficient documentary evidence to support 
the allegation. (Government Exhibit 3 at 3-6.) 
The third part states that Applicant made a statement to the [Intelligence Agency] 
that she had been approached by two males who she assumed worked for the MSS of 
China. This was a true statement. 
Government Exhibit 7 shows that in 2012 Applicant filled out a “Mandatory Foreign 
Contact Interview Questions” form. This was in relation to a trip to China in 2012. Question 
5 of the form asks, “Has a foreign national asked you any questions concerning your 
employment or the job you are doing for the Government/Navy?” Question 9 asks, “Has 
the foreign national ever been affiliated, either directly or indirectly, with the military 
government, intelligence, or internal security agency of a foreign country?” She admits 
that questions like these are common after a foreign trip, such as to China. (Tr. 105-106.) 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
     
 
 
 
  
 
   
   
 
   
      
 
      
   
 
  
     
   
 
  
   
 
    
    
   
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
As discussed, Applicant was the subject of a joint investigation with NCIS and the 
FBI. On April 12, 2022, NCIS submitted a “Recommendation to Proceed with Adjudicative 
Action” memorandum to DCSA. (Government Exhibit 9.) Paragraph 2 on page 1 of the 
memorandum states: 
The results of the joint investigation revealed [Applicant] failed to report 
foreign contacts during her travel to China circa October 2017, and 
subsequently provided falsified statements to federal law enforcement 
agents on several occasions between February and July 2019 when 
[Applicant] participated in voluntary interviews with the FBI and NCIS. 
After receiving the above memorandum Applicant’s employer, the Intelligence 
Agency, prepared two SAERs. (Government Exhibit 9 at 3-6; Applicant Exhibit A.) 
Applicant Exhibit A is an Initial SAER prepared in September 2019. Paragraph 5 
of Applicant Exhibit A is entitled, “Command observations and actions.” It states: 
The incident is wholly outside of [Applicant’s] known and observed 
character. She has been a model employee at [ Intelligence Agency] both 
as a contractor (since 2014) and as a government employee (since 2017). 
She is considered trustworthy, reliable, and dependable. She is known for 
showing discretion, has no security incidents, and outside of this incident is 
a model of overall personal conduct. 
Government Exhibit 9 at 3- 6 is the Final SAER submitted by the Intelligence 
Agency. It was prepared subsequent to Applicant Exhibit A. Paragraph 5 of the Final 
SAER is entitled, “Command observations and actions.” It states: 
[Applicant], during the course of the investigation, confessed to failing to 
report foreign contacts and lying to federal investigators about her foreign 
contacts. Furthermore, upon review, [Applicant] provided different stories 
about her meetings with foreign contacts to different supervisors, who were 
able to corroborate that she was changing her story once the supervisors 
compared notes. [Applicant] is not considered trustworthy or reliable based 
on these events. 
Paragraph 6 asks for a command recommendation regarding Applicant’s SCI 
eligibility. The command states: 
Due to [Applicant’s] repeated unsatisfactory CSPs [Counterintelligence 
Scope Polygraphs], and lying during the investigation with the FBI, and 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
     
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
NCIS,  [Intelligence Agency] does  not inten d  to return t he member to a  
special sensitive billet  requiring access to SCI information,  and no longer  
supports the need  for an SCI determination.  
China  
I take administrative notice of the facts set forth in the Administrative Notice 
documents concerning China, which are incorporated herein by reference. 
China is a large and economically powerful country, with a population of over a 
billion people and an economy growing at about 10% per year. China has an authoritarian 
government, dominated by the Chinese Communist Party. It has a poor record with 
respect to human rights, suppresses political dissent, and engages in arbitrary arrests 
and detentions, forced confessions, torture, and mistreatment of prisoners. 
China is one of the most aggressive countries in seeking sensitive  and protected  
U.S. technology and  economic intelligence. It targets the United States with active  
intelligence gathering programs, both legal and illegal.  As a result, it is a growing threat 
to U.S. national security. In China, authorities  routinely  monitor telephone conversations,  
facsimile transmissions, e-mail, text  messaging, and internet communications. Authorities  
open and censor mail.  Its security services  have entered personal residences and offices  
to gain access to computers, telephones,  and fax  machines. All major hotels have a  
sizable internal security presence, and hotel guestrooms are sometimes  bugged and  
searched for sensitive  or proprietary materials. There are several recent  cases involving  
actual  or attempted espionage,  as well as  the illegal export of information to China.  
Mitigation  
Applicant had a successful military career as shown by her receiving various 
awards and decorations. (Applicant Exhibits B and C.) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s national security eligibility for a security clearance, 
the administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines (AG) list 
potentially disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in 
evaluating an applicant’s national security eligibility. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
  
  
   
    
 
  
  
  
  
    
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. The entire 
process is a conscientious scrutiny of applicable guidelines in the context of a number of 
variables known as the whole- person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires, “Any doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. I have not drawn inferences based on mere speculation or 
conjecture. 
Directive ¶ E3.1.14, requires the Government to present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, “The applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel, and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable clearance decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants national 
security eligibility. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk the 
applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or safeguard classifi ed 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as 
to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified or sensitive information. 
Finally, as emphasized in Section 7 of Executive Order 10865, “Any determination under 
this order adverse to an applicant shall be a determination in terms of the national interest 
and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” 
See also Executive Order 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information.) 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
     
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
     
 
 
Analysis  
Paragraph 1  (Guideline E,  Personal Conduct)  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Personal Conduct is set out in 
AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to 
cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes. The following will normally result in 
an unfavorable national security eligibility determination, security clearance 
action, or cancellation of further processing for national security eligibility: 
(a) refusal, or failure without reasonable cause, to undergo or  
coop
erate with security processing, including but  not limited  
to meeting with a security investigator for subject interview,  
completing security forms or releases, cooperation with  
medical or  psychological evaluation, or polygraph  
examination, if  authorized and required; and  
(b) refusal to provide full, frank, and truthful answers to lawful  
quest
ions of investigators, security officials,  or other official  
representatives in connection with a personnel security  or  
trustworthiness determination.  
The guid
eline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 16. Three are potentially applicable in this case: 
(b) deliberately providing false or  mi sleading information; or concealing or  
omitting information, concerning relevant  facts to an employer, investigator,  
security official, competent  medical or mental health professional involved  
in making a recommendation relevant  to a national security eligibility  
determination,  or other government representative;   
(c) credible adverse information in several adjudicative issue areas that is  
not s
ufficient for an adverse determination under any other single guideline,  
but which, when considered as  a whole, supports a whole -person  
assessment of questionable judgment, untrustworthiness, unreliability, lack  
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
of candor, unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations, or other 
characteristics indicating that the individual may not properly safeguard 
classified or sensitive information; and 
(d) credible adverse information that is not explicitly covered under any  
other
 guideline an d may not be sufficient by itself for an adverse  
determination,  but which, when combined with all available information,  
supports a whole- person assessment  of questionable judgment,  
untrustworthiness,  unreliability, lack of candor, unwillingness to comply with 
rules and regulations,  or other characteristics  indicating that the individual  
may  not properly safeguard classified or sensitive information. This  
includes, but is not limited to, consideration of:  
(1) untrustworthy or  unr eliable behavior to include breach of client  
confidentiality, release or proprietary information,  unauthorized  
release of sensitive corporate or government  protected information;  
(2) any disruptive, violent,  or ot her  inappropriate behavior;  
(3) a pattern of  dis honesty or rule violations;  and  
(4) evidence of significant  m isuse of Government or other employer’s  
time or  resources.  
I cons
idered the following mitigating conditions under ¶ 17 and none of them apply 
to the facts of this case: 
(a) the individual  mad e prompt,  good-faith efforts to correct the omission,  
concealment,  or falsification before being confronted with the facts;  
(b) the refusal or failure to cooperate, omission, or concealment was caused  
or s
ignificantly contributed to by  advice of legal counsel  or of  a person with  
professional responsibilities for advising or instructing the individual  
specifically concerning security processes, Upon being made aware of the  
requirement to cooperate or  provide the information, the individual  
cooperated fully  and truthfully;  
(c) the offense was so  mi nor,  or so much time has passed, or the behavior  
is so infrequent, or it  happened under such unique circumstances  that it is  
unlikely to recur  and  does not cast doubt  on the individual’s reliability,  
trustworthiness, or  good judgment; and  
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
     
  
  
     
 
 
     
     
  
 
 
   
    
 
     
     
 
    
 
   
 
 
    
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
   
  
  
 
(d) the individual has acknowledged the behavior and obtained counseling  
to c
hange the behavior or taken other positive steps to alleviate the  
stressors, circumstances, or factors that  contributed to untrustworthy,  
unreliable, or  other inappropriate behavior, and such behavior is  unlikely to  
recur.  
Appli
cant lied, and lied repeatedly, in several interviews to various investigators 
about important matters between 2017 and 2019. Her lies were only discovered when 
she failed a polygraph and confessed after additional interrogation. Her repeated lies 
were in connection to her rather bizarre story about how she transferred at least $250,000 
out of China using a person she never met, and her contact with the Chinese MSS. 
Applicant obviously felt she had something to conceal when she hid all the facts 
about the money transfer from her management and from various investigators for years. 
The fact that she felt she might be fired for her conduct shows that she knew it was, at 
the very least, questionable. 
Turning to Applicant’s failure to report her foreign contacts, her argument here is 
simply not credible. She argues that none of these six people were important to her. Her 
actions belie her words. Ms. A and her spouse assisted in her scheme to avoid Chinese 
currency transfer regulations. Applicant felt that the two elementary school friends may 
have been contacted by MSS about her. Finally, she made a special trip to visit her aunt 
and uncle, who she argues she does not have “close and continuing contact ,” because 
she was afraid that MSS may have contacted them after interviewing her. Her repeated 
lies about these people deprived the Government, for years, of the ability to determine 
whether these contacts had security significance. 
Paragraph 2  (Guideline  B, Foreign Influence)  
AG ¶ 6 explains the security concerns pertaining to foreign influence as follows: 
Foreign contacts and interest may be a security concern if the individual has 
divided loyalties or foreign financial interests, may be manipulated or 
induced to help a foreign person, group, organization, or government in a 
way that is not in U.S. interests, or is vulnerable to pressure or coercion by 
any foreign interest. Adjudication under this Guideline can and should 
consider the identity of the foreign country in which the foreign contact or 
financial interest is located, including, but not limited to, such considerations 
as whether the foreign country is known to target United States citizens to 
obtain protected information and/or is associated with a risk of terrorism. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
      
  
   
     
    
     
    
  
 
     
 
 
AG ¶ 7 sets out five conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying in this case: 
(a) contact with a foreign family  mem
 ber, business  or professional  
associate, friend, or other person who is a citizen of  or resident in a foreign  
country if  that contact creates  a heightened risk of foreign exploitation,  
inducement, manipulation,  pressure, or  coercion;   
(b) connections to a foreign person, group, government,  or co untry that  
create a potential conflict of interest  between the individual’s obligation to  
protect sensitive information or technology  and the individual’s desire to  
help a foreign person, group,  or country  by providing that information;  
(c)  failure to report or fully disclose, when required, association  with a  
f
oreign person,  group, government, or  country;  
(d) counterintelligence i nform ation,  whether classified or unclassified,  that  
indicates  the individual’s access to classified information or  eligibility  for a  
sensitive position  my involve unacceptable risk to national security;  
(i)  conduct, especially while traveling or  resi ding outside the U .S., that may 
make the individual vulnerable to exploitation, pressure, or coercion  by a 
foreign person, group,  government or country.  
China is
 known to target U.S. citizens to obtain protected information and has a 
significant interest in acquiring defense-related intelligence and technology. As described 
at length above, Applicant’s conduct in China with her friends and relations, her contact 
with MSS, and her repeated lies about those contacts and actions, are very concerning. 
Applicant’s conduct made her very vulnerable to coercion, exploitation, or pressure from 
China, a country that generates a heightened risk. The evidence is sufficient to raise 
potential security concerns under AG ¶¶ 7(a), 7(b) , 7(c), 7(d), and 7(i). The Government 
has more than met its burden of production by raising the above disqualifying conditions 
and shifts the burden to Applicant to prove mitigation. 
AG ¶ 8 lists three conditions that could mitigate foreign influence security concerns. 
Those with potential application in mitigating the security concerns in this case are: 
(a) the nature of the relationships with foreign persons, the country in which  
these p er
sons  are l ocated,  or  the positions or activities of those persons  in  
that country are such that it is unlikely  the individual will be placed in a  
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
    
    
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
        
    
     
 
 
  
  
position of having to choose between the interests  of  a foreign individual,  
group, organization,  or government  and the interests of the U.S.;  
(b) there is  no conflict  of  interest, either  because the individual’s sense of  
loyalty or  obligation to t he foreign person, group,  government, or  country  is  
so minimal,  or the individual has such deep and longstanding relationships  
and loyalties in the U.S., that the individual can be expected to resolve any  
conflict of interest in favor of the U.S. interest; and  
(c) contact or communication with foreign citizens is so casual and  
inf
requent that there is little likelihood that it could create a risk for foreign  
influence or exploitation.   
None of
 these mitigating conditions apply to the facts of this case. Applicant 
attempts to argue that none of the six people described under this allegation are important 
to her. Her conduct, as set forth above, belies that fact. Her act in lying about them shows 
that they were important. This guideline is found against Applicant. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for national security eligibility by considering the totality of the 
applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should 
consider the nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant national security 
eligibility for a security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon 
careful consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
pertinent facts and circumstances surrounding this case. Applicant has not met her 
burden of mitigating the alleged conduct. It is hard to conceive someone who was more 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
      
   
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
    
  
 
 
     
  
 
 
                                                  
 
 
 
 
 
 
vulnerable than Applicant. She appears to still not realize or appreciate that fact. What is 
especially alarming is that she was a long-time intelligence professional. In fact, she was 
a Branch Chief at the time of the incidents. Her conduct was knowing and willful and 
designed to deprive the Government of important information. Paragraphs 1 and 2 are 
found against Applicant. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by ¶ E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  G
 uideline E:   AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a  through 1.e:   Against  Applicant  
Paragraph 2,  Guideline B:   AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  2.a  through 2.c:  Against  Applicant  
Conclusion  
In l
ight of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue Applicant’s national 
security eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is 
denied. 
WILFORD H. ROSS 
Administrative Judge 
15 