 
 
 
                                                               
  
                          
 
                   
          
           
             
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
  
   
    
    
    
     
    
 
  
 
 
~ ~, 
iit~ ~ ; 
'I'~ .$' · - ~ ') 
VO 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of:  ) 
 ) 
  )   ISCR Case No.  22-01640  
  )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance  ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Nicole Smith, Esq.; Karen Moreno-Sales, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Sean Rogers, Esq. 
05/13/2025 
Decision 
PRICE, Eric C., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant has mitigated security concerns raised under Guideline I (Psychological 
Conditions). Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Statement  of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application on September 16, 2020. On 
September 9, 2022, the Department of Defense Consolidated Adjudications Facility (DoD 
CAF) sent him a Statement of Reasons (SOR) alleging security concerns under Guideline 
I and Guideline H (Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse). The DoD CAF acted under 
Executive Order ( Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry 
(February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel 
Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the 
adjudicative guidelines (AG) promulgated in Security Executive Agent Directive 4, 
National Security Adjudicative Guidelines (December 10, 2016). 
1 
 
 
 
    
    
 
 
    
 
 
 
     
    
 
       
    
     
       
    
      
 
      
   
      
 
    
     
   
 
 
  
       
     
  
    
 
Applicant answered the SOR on January 3, 2023, and requested a hearing before 
an administrative judge. The case was assigned to me on January 2 3, 2024. After 
coordination with counsel, on May 9, 2024, the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals 
(DOHA) notified Applicant the hearing was scheduled to be conducted by video 
teleconference on June 3, 2024. I convened the hearing as scheduled. 
Department Counsel  withdrew t he  Guideline H SOR allegation at hearing.  
(Transcript (Tr.) at 7 )  Government Exhibits  (GE) 1 through 7 were admitted in evidence  
without objection a nd the Government called one witness .  Department Counsel  
requested I take administrative notice of  extracts  of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual  
of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-5),  pertaining to Bipolar  II Disorder,  at pages 132-
139,  and Panic  Disorder,  at pages 208- 214, and w ithout objection I have done so  and  
marked it  as GE 8. (Tr.  15-16)  Applicant testified, called three  witnesses,  and submitted 
Applicant’s Exhibits (AE) A through W , which were admitted without  objection.  AE A  
through S were part of Applicant’s SOR Response.  I kept the record open until July 17,  
2024, to enable Applicant  to submit documentary  evidence.  He timely submitted AE Y  
and Z  which were admitted without  objection. The record does  not  include an  AE X.  DOHA  
received the transcript on June 14, 2024,  and the record closed on July  17, 2024.   
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a 
through 1.e with explanations. His admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact. 
Applicant is a 29-year-old cyber engineer employed by a defense contractor since 
January 2021. He worked as a cyber engineer for another defense contractor from July 
2018 to December 2020, and as a software engineer for a different company from 
February 2015 to July 2018. He honorably served in the A rmy Reserve as a postal 
specialist from February 2013 to March 2021, including two years in the individual ready 
reserve. He has had a security clearance since 2013. (GE 1; AE I-J; Tr. 95-97, 175-178) 
Applicant is married and has no children. He has earned multiple certifications and 
has extensive technical experience. He anticipates earning a bachelor’s degree in 
computer network engineering in 2025. (GE 1; AE J; Tr. 131-132, 175-178) 
Applicant developed symptoms of depression and anxiety in 2007 when he was 
12 years old, around the time his parents divorced. He was evaluated by a psychiatrist, 
prescribed Prozac and experienced immediate relief. (GE 2 at 3; Tr. 121-136) 
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges that in 2009, Applicant was voluntarily hospitalized for inpatient 
treatment due to suicidal ideations . He was voluntarily hospitalized for three days in 
October 2010 after experiencing suicidal thoughts, panic attacks and sarcastically saying 
words to the effect of “just shoot me” during an argument with his high school guidance 
counselor. He returned to school the day after he was discharged. (SOR Response at 3; 
Tr. 113-136) 
2 
 
 
 
   
     
     
  
  
    
   
      
 
 
 
In 2011 or 2012, Applicant was diagnosed with attention- deficit/hyperactivity 
disorder ( ADHD) by a psychiatrist and prescribed Concerta, which helped control his 
symptoms. He stopped taking Concerta in about 2012 because he was concerned it might 
inhibit his ability to get into the Army Reserve based upon advice received from a recruiter. 
In about 2014 or 2015 , he experienced anxiety attacks after being told he was going to 
be deployed. The anxiety attacks ranged from daily to weekly resulting in his 
disqualification from deployment. He continued to have anxiety attacks once or twice a 
month but reported no medications or treatment. (Tr. 112-117, 136-138; GE 2 at 3-4) 
In May 2017, Applicant  saw Dr. G, a  Doctor of Osteopathic  medicine, primary care  
provider  and family friend. He  told  Dr G.  he had anxiety  that started a few years  earlier,  
and felt  dread  and a loss of  motivation  several times a month,  particularly when he had  
weekend military drill. He  said things had improved and that  propranolol  had “worked  
great for him.” (GE  3 at 2) Dr. G prescribed  propranolol  (anxiety)  in May  2017. (GE 3 at  
4) In April 2020,  Applicant  reported excess anxiety  and fatigue and Dr. G prescribed  
propranolol for 90 days. During the COVID-19 pandemic, Applicant  started experiencing  
passive and mild suicidal thoughts and unsuccessfully sought  mental health services for  
several months.  His  suicidal thoughts  gradually worsened, and he was unable to stop  
them. At  some poi nt he  stopped taking the propranolol  because people close to hi m  
noticed fundamental changes  in him.  (GE  3 at 9; Tr.  101-107,  138-148, 178-179)  
 On August 5,  2020, Applicant was  under pressure to complete a significant project  
at work. After  several  panic  attacks, hyperventilating and experiencing intrusive thoughts  
of suicide,  he notified his  technical lead. After  various techniques to control his feelings  
were unsuccessful, he contacted  his supervisor  who drove hi m to a mental health facility.  
He was  voluntarily  admitted  for two  days  of psychiatric services. (AE D; GE 4; Tr. 103 -
107) He was  diagnosed with Major Depressive Disorder (recurrent  episode, severe) , 
(SOR  ¶ 1.b).  He reported last  taking  propranolol  two days  prior to being admitted. (AE  D 
at 1)  He was started on Zoloft (depression/anxiety),  Abilify (mood) and  T razadone 
(depression/insomnia),  and  participated in one- on-one counseling. (AE D at  7) He was  
discharged less  than 48 hours after  admission after  all goals were met,  and  was instructed  
to continue prescribed medications and  to attend outpatient counseling.  About a week  
after  being discharged he experienc ed  significant  side effects.  He  spoke to Dr. G who  
advised that he should  stop taking Zoloft and Abilify ,  and  that he should consult with a  
psychiatrist  to find medication that  worked  better. On September 8, 2020, about a week  
after he stopped taking Zoloft and Abilify ,  he was  prescribed Latuda and Trazadone  by 
Ms. L, a  mental health c are provider.  (SOR Response;  AE D; GE 4, GE 5; Tr.  103-122, 
148-161, 179-181)  
3 
 On S eptember 12, 2020, Applicant first met with Dr. A, a psychiatrist. (GE 6 at 3 -
4; Tr. 123-124, 180-181) Dr. A noted Applicant, then 24 years old,  had a history of  bipolar  
disorder mixed and A DHD.  (SOR ¶ 1. c) Dr. A ordered he continue taking  Latuda and 
Trazadone (for depression) and start taking Adderall 10mg (ADHD).  (GE 6 at 3) On  
September 29, 2020,  Ms. L  increased his  dosage of Latuda. ( GE 5 at 7-8; Tr. 155-166)  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
     
   
       
    
    
   
 
  
      
 
   
     
     
     
  
  
   
    
   
 
  
   
 
  
 
The DS
M-5 not
es: 
Individuals with bipolar II disorder typically  present  to a clinician during a  
major depressive episode and are unlikely to complain initially of  
hypomania.  Typically, the hypomanic episodes  themselves  do not cause  
impairment. Instead,  the impairment resul ts  from  the major depressive  
episodes  or from a persistent pattern of  unpredictable mood changes  
….Although bipolar II disorder can begin in late adolescence and throughout  
adulthood,  average onset is the mid- 20s… .The illness most  often begins  
with a depressive episode and is  not recognized as  bipolar II disorder until  
a hypomanic episode occurs[.]      
(GE 8 at 135-136; Tr. 39-41) 
On November 8, 2020, Ms. M, Licensed Mental Health Counselor (LMHC) and 
Master’s Level Certified Addiction Professional , completed a biopsychosocial 
assessment of Applicant. She noted he met DSM-5 criteria for Major Depressive Disorder, 
recurrent, moderate (SOR ¶ 1. d), and that he attended bi -weekly individual therapy 
sessions. (GE 7) Ms. M’s December 2022 discharge summary stated he participated in 
19 individual cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) sessions from November 2020 to 
October 2021. She reported he experienced “marked improvement” with daily 
depressive/anxious thoughts, that the CBT was “combined with psychotropic medication 
management,” and that she deferred to his psychiatrist regarding prescribed medication. 
The CBT was terminated because he stopped making appointments. (AE F; GE 7; Tr. 
124-127, 163, 181-185) 
In June 2022, Applicant participated in a psychological evaluation requested by 
DoD CAF. (GE 2; Tr. 16- 84) Dr. B, a DoD-affiliated licensed clinical psychologist and 
board-certified neuropsychologist evaluated Applicant. She interviewed him , reviewed 
records including a DoD background investigation, his standardized psychological 
inventory, the Personality Assessment Inventory (PAI) , and medical records. Her report 
dated June 28, 2022 noted he vapes nicotine daily (“like 15 mg and much lower than a 
cigarette”), drinks 3 -6 cups of coffee per day, consumes alcohol about two times per 
month, denied intentional illicit drug use but disclosed he had vaped CBD that tested 
positive for THC and once unknowingly ate a brownie that contained marijuana at a party 
in Las Vegas, Nevada. Her Diagnostic Impressions included: 
[T]he following diagnoses is appropriate at this time: 
4 
 Bipolar  II dis
 order, current  episode hypomanic    
 Panic  disorder  without agoraphobia  
R/O  Stimulus use disorder  
 
I have some concerns  of potential use of alcohol and other drugs (cannabis,  
nicotine, caffeine, or possibly even others not disclosed)  . . . based both on  
his psychological  profile on the PAI,  as well as his somewhat  unlikely  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
       
       
  
   
       
      
    
   
   
   
     
 
   
   
     
     
   
     
    
     
  
 
    
description of  unintentionally  eating food with marijuana on one occasion, 
and testing positive for marijuana (reportedly  due to vaping oils  that do not  
require a prescription) on another.   
As recently  as  a year ago, this  applicant’s panic disorder and bipolar  
disorder were clearly uncontrolled.  He has a history  of rather erratic  
behavior since his last hospitalization, including briefly  halting his  
engagement to date  a family member’s ex -wife. Moreover,  his mood  
disorder has clearly not been fully managed by his current treatment regime, 
given his observed (and acknowledged)  mood of slight  hypomania.    
[Applicant’s] condition is expected to be chronic, based on his diagnoses  
and history of symptoms. He did not report  that  as recently as  a year or two  
ago he stopped taking his medication as prescribed. Therefore,  I have  
concerns  his condition could impact his judgment, trustworthiness and  
reliability.  The  prognosis  in this case is guarded,  given the diagnoses  and 
lack of effective and consistent treatment  for this individual. If unmedicated,  
and particularly if using alcohol  or other substances, he is a risk  of  security 
breach.   
(GE 2; Tr. 20-31) 
Dr. B. testified as follows. A diagnosis of bipolar II disorder was used because he 
does not have full manic episodes and is not full type one b ipolar. Bipolar II disorder is 
typically treated with mood stabil izers, adjusted as needed by the care provider , and 
supplemented by therapy to help develop healthier coping mechanisms to deal with 
symptoms of hypomania or depression. Without medication, bipolar disorder will be 
present throughout a person’s life and will include recurrences of both depression and 
hypomania at different times. She was concerned that he had a history of not always 
being compliant with his medications and believed he just stopped taking medications in 
2013 and in September 2020 without direction from a mental health provider. Panic 
disorder can be effectively treated if the individual learns healthy coping mechanisms but 
if not properly treated, it can become chronic. (Tr. 22-31) 
At the time of Dr. B’s report, Applicant was taking Latuda (mood stabilizer) , 
benztropine, Adderall (stimulant), and buspirone (anxiety). Dr. B acknowledged that 
medication questions were best directed t o a psychiatrist but noted treating people with 
bipolar disorder with a stimulant is tricky because it makes it more likely they will 
experience hypomania. She expressed similar concerns about caffeine. She was not sure 
why he was on medication for ADHD because he reported that, after he went off Concerta 
(stimulant) he did not have continuing symptoms of ADHD. She stated “The prognosis 
could change ... If he’s consistently on his medications as prescribed by an appropriate 
psychiatric provider and he’s consistently in therapy[.]” (Tr. 46) She noted b ipolar II 
disorder is “a chemical imbalance in the brain that causes them to have much greater 
fluctuations in mood than is typical of most people.” (Tr. 49) She emphasized that regular 
5 
 
 
 
    
      
 
    
   
   
  
     
   
       
   
 
 
   
     
   
    
   
    
    
   
 
     
   
    
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
        
  
counseling, regular visits with a psychiatrist and consistent medication management were 
key to effective management of bipolar II disorder. (Tr. 31-49) 
In a letter dated September 11, 2022, Dr. A wrote that he had seen Applicant 
monthly since September 2020; had prescribed various medications for anxiety, 
depression and inattention; over the course of treatment only minor dose adjustments 
were necessary to control his symptoms ; and that Applicant had not complained of 
adverse effects from medications. Dr. A’s mental health examination was favorable and 
noted Applicant denied any suicidal thoughts or intentions. Dr. A opined Applicant was 
“psychiatrically stable and his prognosis is fair as long as he maintains regular follow-up 
care. His insight and judgment [were] intact and he [was] compliant with his treatment.” 
(AE G) 
After the hearing, Applicant submitted a letter from Dr. A dated June 8, 2024, that 
updated his September 2022 evaluation. Dr. A has continued to see Applicant monthly, 
noted that he was stable on his current medications and show ed no signs of 
anxiety/depression or of a focus problem. Dr A’s mental health examination was favorable 
and noted Applicant denied any suicidal thoughts or intentions; that his insight and 
judgment were intact and goal oriented, and that his attention span was intact. Dr. A 
opined Applicant was “stable and at base line psychiatrically and his prognosis is good 
on current medications.” (AE Y) 
Applicant has received psychotherapy services from Ms . C, Master of Science in 
Counseling, LMHC, since September 2022. (AE T ; Tr. 43 -47, 127-130) By letter dated 
May 22, 2024, Ms. C reported: 
[He]  originally self-referred  for treatment  to resolve symptoms of anxiety,  
mood fluctuations, and to assist with  management of  ADHD symptoms  
[and] sought  out  psychotherapy as  an adjunct to psychotropic  medications  
management.  
[He] has  consistently  attended therapy sessions which [include]  treatment  
plan development  and revision, learning,  practicing and implementing  
coping techniques, completing all  recommended homework assignments  
and following therapeutic  recommendations.   
[He]  has made significant progress towards his treatment goals  of symptom  
reduction/resolution  as evidence d  by; self -reported symptom decrease,  
therapist observations  of symptom reduction/resolution, Likert Scaling and  
as indicated by evidence-based screening assessments[.]  
(AE T) 
Applicant called three witnesses and submitted eight cha racter letters from his 
supervisor of four years, former Army squad leader, peers, colleagues, friends and his 
brother. They commented favorably on his intelligence, mission focus, work performance, 
6 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
    
  
     
    
   
       
  
  
      
 
 
 
   
    
 
 
 
      
   
  
     
    
  
      
 
 
  
   
    
   
     
    
 
     
  
  
commitment and contributions to cybersecurity, reliability, loyalty, trustworthiness, 
judgement, commitment to information security , and suit ability for a security clearance. 
(Tr. 197-230; AE M-R, W, Z) 
Applicant’s three witnesses, including two former supervisors , were aware of his 
mental health conditions. The witnesses testified that his mental health conditions have 
not impacted his reliability, trustworthiness or performance, and that he has greatly 
benefitted from having a positively engaged spouse, and from mental health treatment 
including counseling. (Tr. 197 -230) A long-time friend noted that since seeking help in 
2020, Applicant has been dedicated to his mental and physical health, CBT therapist, and 
psychiatrist. He noted Applicant’s difficulties finding psychiatric help during the pandemic, 
and favorably commented on his stability and adherence to his treatment plan. (AE P) His 
former supervisor and current peer said that during the COVID-19 pandemic Applicant: 
got real low,  had dark thoughts, did the right thing and reached out for  help.  
He got that  help and recovered very fast ….. What he went through was a  
redefining moment in his life, and he owned  it and got past it…[ he]  did the 
right thing and self -reported. This is  admirable behavior that needs to be  
rewarded.  (AE  Z)  
Applicant submitted favorable performance reviews from 2021 through 2022. The 
performance reviews listed his many contributions to his employer, co- workers, mission 
accomplishment, and rated him as “outstanding” and as “constantly exceeds expectations 
by far.” (AE K)  
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
decision. An a dministrative judge must consider all available and reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
7 
 
 
 
   
   
   
 
 
    
   
    
   
  
 
   
   
  
  
 
 
  
   
     
 
 
 
   
    
    
 
 
 
    
 
p
ossib
le risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865 
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant 
has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have 
established for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The g uidelines 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 15-01253 at 3 
(App. Bd. Apr. 20, 2016). 
 Once the  
 Government establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial  
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive  ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of  proving a mitigating condition,  
and the burden of disproving it  never shifts to the  Government.  See  ISCR Case No.  02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep.  22,  2005).   
An appl
icant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent 
with the national interest to grant or continue his security clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01-
20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if 
they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531. 
Analysis  
Guideline  I, Psychological  Conditions  
The concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 27: 
Certain emotional,  mental,  and personality conditions can impair judgment,  
reliability, or trustworthiness. A formal diagnosis of a disorder is not required  
for there to be a concern under this guideline. A duly qualified mental health  
professional (e.g.,  clinical psychologist or psychiatrist) employed by, or  
acceptable to and approved by the U.S.  Government, should be consulted 
when evaluating potentially disqualifying and mitigating information under  
this guideline and an  opinion, including prognosis, should be sought. No  
8 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
negative inference concerning the standards in this guideline may be raised 
solely on the basis of mental health counseling. 
Applicant’s admissions and the evidence submitted at the hearing establish the 
following disqualifying conditions under AG ¶ 28: 
(a)  behavior that casts  doubt  on an indi
 vidual’s judgment, stability, reliability,  
or trustworthiness,  not covered under any other guideline and that may  
indicate an emotional, mental,  or  personality condition, including,  but not  
limited to, irresponsible, violent, self-harm, suicidal, paranoid,  manipulative,  
impulsive, chronic lying, deceitful, exploitative, or bizarre behaviors;  
(b)  an o pinion by   a duly  qualified mental health professional that  the  
individual has a condition that may impair judgment, stability, reliability, or  
trustworthiness;  
(c) voluntary or involuntary inpatient hospitalization;  and  
(d) failure t
o follow a prescribed treatment plan related to a diagnosed 
psychological/psychiatric condition that may impair judgment, stability, 
reliability, or trustworthiness, including, but not limited to, failure to take 
prescribed medication or failure to attend required counseling sessions 
T
he following mitigating conditions are potentially applicable under AG ¶ 29: 
(
a) the identified condition is readily controllable with treatment, and the 
indivi
dual has demonstrated ongoing and consistent compliance with the   
treatment plan;  
(b)  the individual has voluntarily entered a counseling or treatment program  
for a c
ondition that is amenable to treatment, and the individual is currently  
receiving counseling or treatment with a favorable prognosis by  a duly  
qualified mental health professional;  
(c) recent opinion by  a dul y qu alified mental  health professional  employed  
by,  or acceptable to  and approved by,  the U.S. Government  that an  
individual’s previous condition is under control or in remission, and has a  
low probability of recurrence or  exacerbation;  
(d) the past psychological/psychiatric condition was temporary,  the si tuation  
has been resolved, and the individual no longer shows indications of  
emotional instability; and  
(e) there is no i
ndication of a current problem. 
9 
 
 
 
       
       
     
    
      
   
    
     
  
  
   
    
   
  
   
 
    
     
    
  
    
     
     
 
 
      
      
   
     
  
     
 
        
 
    
 
 
   
   
   
   
    
 
  
 
AG ¶¶ 29(a) and 29(b) are established. Applicant voluntarily sought treatment for 
suicidal thoughts and anxiety in about 2010 and in August 2020. Experts for both sides 
diagnosed him with bipolar II disorder and agreed that it is controllable with medication 
and consistent treatment . Dr. A, a psychiatrist , who has seen Applicant monthly since 
September 2020 provided three favorable mental health evaluations and a favorable 
prognosis. He noted t hat only minor dose adjustments to prescribed medications were 
necessary to control symptoms, and said Applicant has denied any suicidal thoughts or 
intentions since September 2020. In S eptember 2022, Dr. A opined Applicant was 
“psychiatrically stable and his prognosis is fair as long as he maintains regular follow-up 
care. His insight and judgment [were] intact and he [was] compliant with his treatment.” 
(AE G) In June 2024, Dr. A confirmed Applicant had been stable on his current 
medications, showed no signs of anxiety or depression or of a focus problem. He noted 
Applicant’s insight and judgment were intact and goal oriented and that his attention span 
was intact. He opined Applicant was “stable and at base line psychiatrically and his 
prognosis is good on current medications.” (AE Y) 
Applicant has voluntarily received psychotherapy services since September 2022. 
He has consistently attended therapy sessions and made significant progress towards 
his treatment goals as evidenced by his self-reported symptom decrease, therapist 
observations of symptom reduction and resolution, and as indicated by evidence- based 
screening assessments . He also voluntarily participated in 19 CBT sessions from 
November 2020 to October 2021 that resulted in marked improvement . T here is no 
evidence of any drug involvement since 2017 or of suicidal thoughts since at least 
September 2020. 
AG ¶ 20(c) is not established . While Dr. A is a highly qualified mental health 
professional, but he is not “employed by . . . and approved by, the U.S. Government.” In 
June 2022, based upon the evidence then known to her, Dr. A, a DoD-approved mental 
health professional, provided a guarded prognosis. She cited Applicant’s diagnoses of 
bipolar II disorder , lack of effective and consistent treatment, and concerns that if 
unmedicated Applicant was a risk for security breach. 
AG ¶ 20(d) is not established. Bipolar II disorder is not a temporary condition. 
AG ¶ 20(e) is established. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. In applying the whole-
person concept, an administrative judge must evaluate an applicant ’s eligibility for a 
security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct and all relevant 
circumstances. An a dministrative judge should consider the nine adjudicative pr ocess 
factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
10 
 
 
 
 
       
    
 
      
      
   
      
    
  
 
    
   
     
 
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
    
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
(1) t
he nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5)  the  extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.   
I have i
ncorporated my comments under Guideline I in my whole-person analysis 
and applied the adjudicative factors in AG ¶ 2(d). Applicant was candid, sincere, and 
credible at the hearing. He was enthusiastic about the changes in his life since receiving 
effective treatment and counseling. I have considered Applicant’s age, education, work 
history, military service, witness testimony, character evidence, and medical history 
including Dr. B’s June 2022 psychological report. I have also considered more recent 
reports from his treating psychiatrist, Dr A, and therapist, Ms. C, that show Applicant has 
received and responded to effective and consistent psychiatric treatment since 
September 2020 and counseling since at least June 2022. 
After weighing the disqualifying and mitigating conditions under Guideline I and 
evaluating all the evidence in the context of the whole person, I conclude Applicant has 
mitigated the security concerns raised by his psychological conditions. 
Formal Findings  
I make the following formal findings on the allegations in the SOR: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline I   
 : FO
R  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a-1.e:  For  Appl icant  
Conclus
ion  
I conclude t
hat it is clearly consistent with the national security interests of the 
United States to continue Applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
Clearance is granted. 
Eric C. Price 
Administrative Judge 
11 