 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                               
                                                             
                          
          
           
 
 
 
  
  
      
  
   
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
    
    
 
       
     
   
    
     
  
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 22-00010 
Appearances  
For Government: John C. Lynch, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Todd A. Hull, Esq. 
09/02/2025 
Decision 
MARINE, Gina L., Administrative Judge: 
This case involves security concerns raised under Guideline J (Criminal Conduct), 
Guideline E (Personal Conduct), and Guideline F (Financial Considerations). Eligibility for 
access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted his security clearance application (SCA) on May 8, 2020. He 
was interviewed by a Department of Defense (DOD) authorized investigator in connection 
with his background investigation on November 19, 2020 (Interview #1) and December 
3, 2020 (Interview #2). On April 1, 2022, the DOD sent him a Statement of Reasons (SOR) 
alleging security concerns under Guidelines J, E, and F. The DOD acted under Executive 
Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 
1960), as amended; Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial 
Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended 
(Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) implemented on June 8, 2017. 
 
 
 
     
     
  
   
 
   
    
  
 
   
   
  
   
    
    
 
 
     
   
 
   
    
       
 
 
 
 
   
  
    
   
 
On April 2 9, 2022 , Applicant responded to the SOR (Answer 1), including 
documents identified as Enclosures 1 through 20, and requested a hearing. On August 
10, 2022, the Government amended the SOR. On August 23, 2022, Applicant responded 
to the amended SOR (Answer 2). The Government was ready to proceed on August 30, 
2022. The case was assigned to me on April 28, 2023. On June 26, 2023, the Defense 
Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) notified Applicant his hearing was scheduled for 
July 28, 2023 (DOHA Hearing). The DOHA Hearing was convened as scheduled via video 
conference. 
Applicant and five witnesses testified. Applicant Exhibits (AE) A through Y, and 
Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 15, were admitted into evidence without objection. 
Five administrative documents were appended to the record as Hearing Exhibit s (HE) I 
through V. Upon the request of both parties, I left the record open until August 25, 2023, 
to allow post-hearing submissions. AE Z through FF , and GE 16 and 17, were admitted 
into evidence without objection. DOHA received the transcript (Tr.) on August 11, 2023. 
Procedural  Matters  
At the DOHA Hearing, the Government requested the SOR be further amended to 
conform to the record, as follows: 1) SOR ¶ 1.f, by changing the alleged month from 
September to February and deleting the last sentence; and 2) SOR ¶ 1.h, by changing 
the alleged month from October to September . At the DOHA Hearing , the SOR was 
amended accordingly without objection. Applicant admitted all allegations, as amended, 
except for SOR ¶¶ 1.c and 1.e, which he denied. (Tr. 99-101, 106-108, 148-149) 
At the  DOHA Hearing, I advised the parties I would separate from  Answer  1  any 
enclosure duplicated in the proposed exhibits and admit the enclosure instead of the 
duplicate.  Upon further consideration, I retained  all 20 enclosures with Answer  1 and all  
admitted exhibits, including duplicates,  to preserve the integrity of the record. (Tr.  99, 109-
110, 129-130)  
Findings of Fact  
Applicant, age 33,  has been married twice.  He was married to his first wife (Wife 
1) from March 2014 until their divorce in May  2016;  they have  one child (Child 1). He has  
one child ( Child 2 ) with a former girlfriend (Ms. M); they dated “off and on" from  
approximately 2014 to 2017. He continues  to  maintain a strong bond and frequent contact  
with  Ms. M’s Child  from another relationship  (Ms. M’s Child). He married his second wife  
(Wife 2) in September  2020; they have one child (Child 3). (GE 1;  Tr. 134-135, 142,  156,  
173, 272-273)  
Applicant graduated high school in June 2010. He served in the U.S. Army from 
March 2011 until his administrative separation for misconduct in May 2014, as discussed 
further below. During his military service, he deployed to Country A, a designated combat 
zone, for about nine months. In June 2023, Applicant received a Bachelor of Science in 
business with a concentration in information technology (IT) management and began 
2 
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
     
     
  
      
   
  
     
 
   
       
 
  
     
 
   
     
  
   
   
     
   
      
   
    
   
    
    
 
  
  
  
  
    
    
   
       
      
  
         
      
 
courses toward earning a Master of Science in cybersecurity. He has received various IT 
certifications in cybersecurity and information system management. (GE 1; AE B; Tr. 135, 
137, 291-292) 
Following Applicant’s military separation, he remained unemployed until about July 
2014, when he began working as a security guard. In about August 2016, he transitioned 
to the IT field, in which he has since remained consistently employed, except for between 
about December 2018 and January 2019, and July to September 2020. He worked as a 
service technician for a private telecommunications company from about August to 
December 2016. Since then, he has been employed in IT positions by various defense 
contractors, the details of which were not clear in the record, working in Country A from 
about April 2017 to July 2020, and in Country B since about June 2022. In July 2023, he 
was promoted from systems administrator to systems engineer. He has held a security 
clearance since 2012 without any reported issues. He testified that maintaining his 
clearance is not only essential for his current position but also personally important, as it 
enables him to continue supporting the military. Without a clearance, he cannot 
remain in an overseas assignment, which he views as a particularly meaningful 
way to contribute. (AE A, U, DD; GE 1; GE 2 at 6; Tr. 10, 43, 137-139, 141, 143, 252-253) 
Applicant was not obligated to pay alimony to Wife 1 and is not currently under any 
court-ordered child support obligation. However, by mutual agreement, he pays both Wife 
1 and Ms. M monthly child support based on his taxable income; he specified paying $600 
directly to them, with “the difference” contributed to each son’s brokerage account or life 
insurance policy. Both Wife 1 and Ms. M indicated he is current with these payments. Wife 
1 stated he also pays about $100 each year for his 50% share of Child 1’s school supplies 
plus unspecified sums upon her request for “extra stuff like food,” for birthdays and 
Christmas, and “other things” Child 1 needs. Wife 1 denied financially depending on 
Applicant or anyone else. Ms. M stated she “can count on him to make sure [Child 2] has 
everything he needs.” Applicant previously had strained and volatile relationships with 
both Wife 1 and Ms. M, and they with each other, as discussed further below. As of the 
hearing, all parties maintained cordial and friendly relations. (Answer 1 at 6; AE Z; GE 2 
at 32; Tr. 17, 25-26, 55-56, 65-67, 134-135, 155, 173, 181-182, 228-229, 271, 293) 
Applicant maintains flexible custody arrangements with both Wife 1 and Ms. M, 
due to his overseas residence and Ms. M’s active-duty military status. Child 3 resides with 
him and Wife 2 full time; Child 1 and Child 2 reside with them full time whenever he is in 
the United States. Approximately two weeks after the DOHA Hearing , Ms. M was 
scheduled to travel to Country B with Child 1, Child 2, and Ms. M’s Child for a “family 
vacation” with Applicant and Wife 2. Wife 2 testified she and Applicant paid for Ms. M’s 
plane ticket for this trip. Following the vacation, Child 1 was expected to remain in Country 
B for an extended visit with Applicant and Wife 2 until the start of the school year; while 
Child 2 was expected to stay and reside in Country B with them full time “for a few months 
or longer depending on the outcome of [this adjudication] as it will affect [Applicant’s] 
employment.” This was to be the first time Child 1 travelled overseas to stay with 
Applicant; the record does not address whether the same was true for Child 2. (Id.) 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
   
  
     
     
 
   
          
 
 
SOR Allegations  
From April 2013 to December 2015 (ages 21 to 24), Applicant was  charged with  
eleven  criminal offenses stemming from  nine separate incidents, including four assaults  
(one involving Wife 1  and two involving Ms. M)  and one driving while  impaired (DWI), as 
alleged under Guideline J (SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.k) and cross-alleged under Guideline E  
(SOR ¶ 2.c). In  May 2014, he was administratively separated from the Army  for 
misconduct  relating solely to the  DWI, as alleged under Guideline  E (SOR ¶ 2.b) .  As 
alleged under  Guideline F,  he received a Chapter 7 bankruptcy  discharge  in  December  
2015  (SOR ¶ 3.a), and he failed to timely pay federal income taxes for tax years (TY)  
2016 and 2018  (SOR ¶¶  3.b and 3.c) . In  January  2017,  his credit union account  was 
investigated for fraudulent activity , as alleged under Guideline E (CU Incident)  (SOR ¶ 
2.a) and cross-alleged  under Guideline F (SOR ¶ 3.d).  
Applicant initially denied he had been charged in four separate assault incidents, 
creating inconsistencies in the record. At the DOHA Hearing, he ultimately acknowledged 
all four charges, as discussed further below. He asserted that a background check he 
conducted on himself before completing the SCA did not list all the charges, and he had 
no independent recollection of the omitted ones due to poor memory and confusion about 
the individuals or dates involved. Without corroborating evidence, he stated his memory 
issues may stem from an attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) diagnosis he 
received as a child, which he testified he manages without medication or medical care. 
(Answers 1 and 2; GE 1; GE 2 at 14; Tr. 146, 148-149, 154, 163, 251, 260-261, 280, 282) 
April 2013  Incident  (SOR ¶¶ 1.i,  2.c). In April 2013, Applicant was arrested and  
charged with  misdemeanor  disturbing t he peace. In  October 2013, he was found guilty  in  
abstentia  and fined $300. During Interview  #1,  he  acknowledged wrongdoing,  admitting 
he disobeyed an officer’s  warning to stop screaming  at a person with whom  his brother  
had  a previous  altercation.  In his Answer  and at the DOHA Hearing, he acknowledged he  
and his friends were arrested for  engaging in  a verbal altercation,  and one friend was  also  
charged with assaulting an officer  and resisting arrest. However,  he  claimed he was only  
arrested because he  was affiliated with the  group and denied engaging  in the v erbal  
altercation or any  other misconduct. He no longer associates with any of those friends.  
He acknowledged his  mistake  in his prior  associations  with them, particularly  given his 
awareness  of  the impact criminal charges could have on his  military career.  H e 
recognized  he could have removed himself from  the situation by leaving in a cab as soon  
as the verbal altercation began. (Answer 1 at 8; GE 2 at  14; GE 13; Tr. 221-224)  
September 2013  Incident  (SOR ¶¶ 1.h, 2.c)
. In  September 2013, Applicant  was  
arrested and charged with misdemeanor public intoxication . In  October 2013,  he was  
found guilty  in abstentia  and fined $125.  He  accepted full responsibility for his  misconduct  
–  cursing loudly  while  appearing on a public beach in an intoxicated  condition,  in violation  
of a local ordinance clearly posted on signs and after disregarding an officer’s warning to  
lower his voice.  For  both 2013 charges, he elected to pay the fine in lieu of appearing in  
court  because he was  on active duty  out of state.  (Answer 1 at  8;  GE 2 at  14; Tr. 220-
223)  
4 
 
 
 
  
   
     
      
 
  
      
 
 
 
February 2014  Incident  (SOR ¶¶ 1.f, 2.c ). In  February 2014, Applicant  chugged 
juice mixed with two shots of alcohol  at  his home off post and then drove his vehicle on  
post to pick up a friend.  He stated he did not  feel intoxicated before  he left home.  During  
a traffic stop  on post, a military police officer (MPO) detected an odor of alcohol emitting  
from  his  person  and transported  him to the  Provost Marshall’s Office (PMO). The PMO 
cited him  for misdemeanor  DWI  with a 0. 11 %  blood alcohol content (BAC)  and referred  
the matter  to the  commander.  In July 2014,  he was  formally charged with DWI  in federal  
court. In  September  2014,  the  commander  elected not  to take administrative or  
disciplinary  action  but ordered him to  attend the Army Substance and Abuse Program  
(ASAP), which he completed.  While in ASAP, he was  not diagnosed with an alcohol  use 
disorder  nor  otherwise recommended for further treatment.  After  discovering the federal  
DWI charge for the first time d uring the security clearance process,  Applicant  hired an  
attorney to help him obtain a dismissal. Federal court records reflect  the charge had never  
been adjudicated due to lack of  proper  service. In May 2023, the charge was  dismissed  
upon the prosecutor’s motion.  (AE L; GE  2 at 8, 37; GE 8, 9; Tr. 211-214)  
A
t the DOHA Hearing , Applicant accepted full responsibility for driving after 
consuming alcohol. The DWI was a “big wakeup call,” causing him to lose the military 
career he had dreamed of since age 10 and intended to serve for 20 years. He has never 
driven under the influence of alcohol since the DWI. He acknowledged the negative 
impact of his excessive consumption of alcohol, including its role in both 2013 arrests , 
and took steps to modify his intake, as discussed further below. (Tr. 212-215, 220-224) 
April 2014  Incident  (SOR ¶¶ 1.g, 2.c). During an April  2014  traffic stop, Applicant  
was issued a summons and later  charged with misdemeanor driving un der a suspended  
license.  In  May 2014,  he was found guilty in abstentia  and fined $150,  which he elected  
to pay in lieu of appearing in court because he was  on active duty  out of state. At the  
DOHA Hearing, Applicant  testified he w as unaware of  the suspension  until  the traffic  stop,  
having  recently  returned from an ov erseas military  deployment. He later  learned  the 
suspension notice w as  sent to his  U.S. address  of  record, his mother’s  residence, and  
was not  timely  conveyed to him. After  discovering he can  check his  license status online, 
he intends to do so before driving  again in the  United States. He expressed confidence a  
similar incident would not  recur. (Answer  1 at 7;  AE I; GE  2 at 12; Tr. 216-218)  
May 2014 Army Separation (SOR ¶  2.b). In May  2014,  Applicant was  
administratively separated from the Army at  the rank of E -4 (Specialist) for misconduct  
based solely on his February 2014 DWI. He initially received a general discharge under  
honorable conditions.  In March 2020,  his  discharge was  upgraded to honorable. (Answer  
1 at 10;  AE C; GE 2  at 7, 30-31,  52, 54;  Tr.  233, 258-259)  
July 7, 2014  Incident  (SOR ¶¶ 1.k, 2.c). On July 7, 2014,  Applicant was charged  
with misdemeanor assault and battery against Wife 1’s male friend.  He  was issued a  
summons and not arrested. In October  2014,  he pleaded not guilty,  and the charge was  
later  dismissed  for reasons  not stated.  At the  DOHA Hearing, he  denied any wrongdoing, 
maintaining he and the friend  had no contact  and  merely stood together while observing  
a physical altercation between  Wife 1 and Ms.  M; and then  he eventually  called t he police. 
5 
 
 
 
      
   
  
    
     
    
      
 
 
 
               
                    
            
                  
             
               
                 
 
 
When the officer arrived, only Wife 1 was arrested for assault, which he believed stemmed 
from her spitting on him; he elected not to pursue the charge. He claimed the friend later 
falsely accused him of assault in retaliation for Wife 1 ’s arrest. He denied assaulting 
anyone during the incident. At the DOHA Hearing , Wife 1 confirmed that she and 
Applicant had no physical contact during the incident, but stated she could not testify to 
what occurred between Applicant and her friend, as her attention had been directed 
toward Ms. M. (AE H; Tr. 78-81, 149, 151-152, 176, 178, 209-211, 227-228) 
July 13,  2014 Incident  (unalleged). On July 13,  2014,  a  separate, unrelated  
incident occurred between Wife 1 and Applicant, according to a petition for a family abuse  
protective  order  that Wife 1 filed on J uly  16, 2014, including Wife  1’s  sworn affidavit stating  
that Applicant tried to pull her and Child 1 , then age one, out of a moving car and  
threatened to kill her, and that  her toe was “badly scraped” in the process.  On August  15,  
2014, the court issued a family abuse protective order  against Applicant (PO-1),  effective  
until August 15,  2016,  “to protect the health and safety” of Wife 1 and Child 1. Upon its  
issuance,  Applicant  was personally served with a copy of  PO -1, which contained  
provisions  prohibiting him  from:  committing “acts of family abuse or criminal  offenses that  
result in injury to person or  property;”  having any type of contact with Wife 1 and Child 1, 
except for court-ordered visitation;  and purchasing or transporting a firearm. Neither  this 
incident nor  PO-1  was  specifically  alleged in the SOR, but  SOR ¶¶  1.b and 1.d  reference  
Applicant’s  violations of  PO-1. Accordingly,  this incident and PO-1  will be considered only  
for the purposes  of  evaluating  mitigation, the whole-person concept, and to the extent  
they  relate to SOR ¶¶  1.b and  1.d. (GE  2 at 56; GE 17 at 1-5)  
At  the  DOHA  Hearing,  Applicant’s  testified  about  two  separate  July  2014  incidents  
involving  Wife  1,  without  referencing  specific  dates.  His  description  of  the  first  incident  –  
“the  night  [Wife  1]  and  [Ms.  M]  got  into  an  altercation”  and  ‘Wife  1  was  arrested  for  assault”  
–  correlates  with  the  July  7,  2014  incident.  In  describing  the  second  incident,  which  he  
stated  occurred  “about  a  week”  after  the  first  incident,  he  proffered  a  materially  different  
version  of ev ents  than  Wife  1’s  affidavit.  However,  the  record  reflects  he  was  referring  to  
the  July  13,  2014  incident.  According  to  Applicant:  Child  1  was  staying  at  his  mother’s  
house  due  to  Wife  1’s  July  7th  arrest;  he  told  Wife  1  to  meet  him  at  his  mother’s  house  
with  a  third  party  “so  she  could  see”  Child  1;  Wife  1  arrived  with  her  sister;  while  they  
gathered  outside  next  to  the  sister’s  car,  Wife  1  held  Child  1  in  her  arms;  at  some  point,  
Wife  1  “jumped  in  the  car”  with  Child  1  and  her  sister  “sped  off.”  He  testified,  
I believe my belt loop, or shirt, or something got caught on [her sister’s] car 
. . . I still have the scars, but I don’t have like actual evidence. I . . . got 
[dragged] by [her sister's] car for 30 feet with mass lacerations everywhere 
on my body. That same day, [Wife 1] went and filed a protective order . . . I 
didn't go to the initial [PO hearing] because I was actually still recovering. 
When I went to the second [PO hearing], I didn't even get to speak. The 
judge was just like stay away from her, and he slammed his gavel . . . (Tr. 
177-179) 
6 
 
 
 
   
  
    
   
     
  
 
    
 
 
     
   
 
   
   
 
   
 
   
    
 
 
      
   
       
  
     
      
  
      
    
     
At the DOHA Hearing, Wife 1 initially downplayed the July 13, 201 4 incident and 
minimized Applicant’s culpability, indicating that, in retrospect, she believed she had 
overreacted to the situation. However, during later testimony, Wife 1 admitted she 
pursued PO-1 in connection with the incident because “I was in fear for my life . . . I was 
scared . . . I felt that way at that particular time.” She also testified that, before PO-1 was 
issued, a 72-hour protective order had been issued against Applicant, and then extended 
for two weeks. Although she referenced a different date during her testimony, the record 
reflects she was referring to the July 13, 2014 incident. (Tr. 77-81) 
October 2014  Incident  (SOR ¶¶ 1.e, 2.c) . On October 29, 2014,  at 1:00 p.m.,  a  
police officer responded to Ms. M’s residence to investigate an  incident. The record  
reflects the incident  occurred that day but  does  not identify  the reporting party  or the 
precise time.  According to the officer’s narrative in the police report:  Applicant kicked in  
the door  to retrieve a laptop (described as his  only remaining possession in the  
residence), after Ms. M (described as his ex -girlfriend) refused him entry; Ms. M alleged  
Applicant grabbed her  from  behind and choked her to unconsciousness “for 10 seconds;”  
and Applicant admitted he pushed her “to get  her off him.” The officer observed bruising  
on Ms.  M’s  chest  and what appeared to b e a rug burn on her knee,  but no bruising  on her 
neck. Despite noting some uncertainty  about  Ms. M’s account  in his narrative, the officer  
arrested Applicant at  2:50 p.m., after a magistrate found probable cause to charge him  
with misdemeanor assault and battery against a family or household member based upon  
the officer’s “sworn statements.” In February 2015, the court ordered the charge nolle 
prossed  on the prosecution’s  motion for reasons not  stated. (GE 7;  AE BB)  
At the DOHA Hearing, Applicant denied knowledge of either the incident or the 
arrest, stating that neither appeared in his background check. He testified he did not 
remember any incident where he “kicked down a door;” stated Ms. M lies “a lot;” and 
denied recalling that he admitted to pushing her. Without proffering supporting evidence, 
he further asserted, “you can’t choke someone out unconscious without bruises.” When 
confronted with the officer’s narrative, he denied both the officer’s and Ms. M’s accounts 
but confirmed that the address was one he previously shared with Ms. M . When asked 
about the inconsistency between his testimony and the record showing he was 
fingerprinted and arrested in connection with the incident, he responded, “I believe I was 
arrested at the scene.” The record does not reconcile that statement with his earlier 
denials. (Tr. 272-280) 
During his testimony, Applicant recounted an event at the same residence where, 
after moving out, he returned to retrieve belongings he had left behind; he did not specify 
either date. It is unclear from the record whether the event occurred on October 29, 2014, 
or was a separate,  unrelated incident. His account included Ms. M throwing his laptop, 
military papers, and clothes into a lake; his description of the location from which she 
threw the items varied. He indicated he did not assault or otherwise engage in misconduct 
toward Ms. M during the event, and was never arrested or charged in connection with it . 
He stated he had difficulty remembering the details of the event, explaining “it is a lot” and 
“I don't even remember actually . . . getting in the [residence]. So, I'm not sure if that 
happened outside . . . ” (emphasis added), without specifying to what “is” and “that” 
7 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
   
    
 
  
    
      
   
      
        
    
    
  
     
 
 
   
        
referred. He referenced neighbors who witnessed the event but said he had no means of 
contacting them to testify at the DOHA Hearing. (Id.) 
April 2015  Incident  (SOR  ¶¶ 1.c, 1.d, 2.c). On April 6, 2015 , Applicant  attempted  
to purchase a firearm  from  a licensed dealer  and was advised the sale required  a same-
day  background chec k.  When he returned to  complete the purchase,  a state trooper  
arrested him  for misdemeanor  attempt  to purchase a firearm while  being subject to PO-
1. He was released on  his own recognizance  with a  summons to appear in court  on April 
9, 2015. When he failed to appear,  a capias  was issued, and he was  arrested and charged  
with  misdemeanor  failure to appear  (FTA).  As  a result,  his $2,000 bond was forfeited. He 
was  released again, with the matter continued to May 11, 2015,  for a consolidated trial.  
On that date, the  firearm charge was  dismissed due to the absence of the arresting state 
trooper. Applicant  pleaded not guilty to the FTA charge and, after trial, was found not  
guilty. (AE F, G; GE 2 at 12; GE 17 at 3-5; Tr.  194-196, 199)  
During Interview #1, Applicant claimed that, at the time he attempted the purchase, 
he did not think he was doing anything illegal because he believed he had only been 
subject to a 72- hour protective order that had expired. In Answer 1 , he claimed that, at 
the time he attempted the purchase, he was unaware he was prohibited from doing so , 
and that he did appear in court on April 9, 2015. At the DOHA Hearing, he acknowledged 
knowing a valid protective order was in effect when he attempted the purchase but 
claimed he was unaware of the firearm restriction. Although he signed paperwork 
acknowledging the order, he claimed he was not verbally informed of the restriction and 
had not read the order closely. He admitted his mistake in failing to review the order 
carefully. He testified he had no plans to purchase a firearm in the future, was no longer 
subject to a valid protective order, and intend ed to read all future court documents 
thoroughly. As a former infantryman, firearms were a normal part of his life and he had 
no “ill intent[]” in attempting the purchase. (Answer 1 at 6; GE 2 at 12; Tr. 194-197) 
September 2015  Incident  (SOR ¶¶  1.b, 2.c). On  September  22,  2015, Applicant  
was arrested and charged with  two misdemeanor s:  assault and battery of  a family  
member (Wife 1)  and violation of  a protective order (PO-1). The protective order  charge 
was based solely on the assault. On November  10, 2015, he was convicted of  both  
charges  and a new  protective order (PO-2)  was issued  against Applicant, effective until  
November  10, 2017,  “to protect  the health and safety”  of  Wife 1 and Child 1 , then age  
two.  PO-2 prohibited Applicant  from:  committing “acts of violence, force, or threat or  
criminal offenses that may result in injury to person or property;” having any type of  
contact with Wife 1 and Child 1 ,  without exceptions; and pur chasing or transporting a   
firearm.  He timely appealed  and  was granted a  de novo  trial, which took place in April 
2016, during which he pleaded not guilty ,  and the court  dismissed both charges  for 
reasons not stated.  PO-2  was not  modified by any court. As PO-2  was  not alleged i n the  
SOR, it will be considered only  to evaluate mitigation and the whole-person concept.  (AE 
D, E; GE 17 at 6-7; Tr.  147, 185)  
Applicant denied he assaulted Wife 1 or violated PO-1, characterizing the charges 
as “baseless.” He explained his contact with Wife 1 and Child 1 on September 22, 2015, 
8 
 
 
 
 
   
    
  
  
  
         
 
    
        
     
    
       
       
   
 
 
    
   
    
     
  
    
   
 
 
      
    
    
     
      
    
  
    
    
 
occurred in connection with a visitation exchange, permissible under PO-1. According to 
him: a verbal argument ensued because Wife 1 opposed his plan to take Child 1 to his 
mother’s house; Wife 1 attempted to remove Child 1 from the car and deny him visitation; 
Wife 1’s sister called the police; and after speaking with Wife 1 and her sister, the officer 
placed him under arrest. During Interview #1, he denied trying to prevent Wife 1 from 
taking Child 1. At the DOHA Hearing, he admitted he stood in front of the car door to 
prevent her from removing Child 1 from the car. (Answer 1; GE 2 at 13, 32; Tr. 177-190) 
At the DOHA Hearing, Applicant attributed the charges to Wife 1’s claim that he 
“grabbed” her, which he initially denied because he construed “grabbing” as “restraining 
someone.” He later admitted to grabbing her wrists, but only to “block her attacks,” which 
he described as her pushing, hitting, and bumping him . He testified the lower court’s 
conviction was based solely on Wife 1 and her sister’s testimony, as his attorney advised 
him not to testify. Without corroborating evidence, Applicant claimed that, after asserting 
self-defense at his de novo trial , the court informed him that the charges were being 
dismissed because he was making child support payments and had not assaulted Wife 
1. (Tr. 177-190) 
At the DOHA Hearing, Wife 1 described the incident as an altercation or scuffle 
she initiated. She admitted hitting Applicant but denied he pushed or hit her. She recalled 
him telling her, “don’t put your hands on me,” and moving her hands to “protect himself.” 
She attributed the incident, in part, to her issues with Ms. M. She denied further incidents 
or law enforcement involvement since the then. She testified that, i n retrospect, she 
regretted pursuing the charges and PO-2. She explained that, while she was aware of the 
potential criminal consequences for Applicant, she did not fully comprehend their 
implications. (Tr. 53-56, 58-60, 68-77) 
During later testimony, Wife 1 admitted she sought PO-2 out of fear for her safety 
at the time of the incident. She testified that the court initially issued a temporary two -
week order and then PO-2, based upon her testimony that she “didn't feel safe at the 
time” and “was in fear for my life.” She explained, “That’s just how I felt at that time ,” 
adding that, in hindsight, she believed she sought PO-2 “more so” to avoid having “to 
deal” with Applicant and Ms. M. Regarding Child 1’s inclusion on PO-2, she stated, “[the 
court] asked me if I wanted to add my son permanently so [Applicant] couldn't see him. 
And I said yes.” She confirmed PO-2 remained in effect until November 10, 2017, and 
that Applicant had no visitation with Child 1 during that time. (Id.) 
December 2015  Incident  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a, 1.j, 2.c). On December 24,  2015,  at about 
8:25  p.m.,  a  police  officer  responded to a “priority two dispute”  at Applicant and Ms. M’s  
shared  residence. The record reflects the incident occurred that  day  but does  not identify  
the precise time. Applicant  told the officer:  he had been sleeping while Ms. M  was  away  
from the  residence;  when  Ms. M returned to the residence, she woke him up;  and then 
they  began to have a “verbal altercation”  as he was holding Ms. M’s Child  in his arms . 
Ms. M told t he officer that  Applicant:  stood up,  lunged toward her, and threw  Ms. M’s  
Child, then age four, on the ground, causing a hematoma to the back of  his  head;  then 
grabbed her and bashed  her in the head;  and then punched her in the face several times. 
9 
 
 
 
       
   
 
     
       
     
      
     
      
   
      
   
     
    
  
 
 
     
    
     
  
      
     
  
  
 
 
  
     
   
  
    
   
    
   
     
 
 
 
     
    
    
 
   
  
 
Ms. M reported Applicant also threatened to shoot Ms. M’s Child and that Applicant “did 
have a gun.” The officer observed a hematoma on Ms. M’s forehead. (GE 3; Tr. at 173) 
After Applicant was placed in custody , Ms. M escorted the officer to a vehicle in 
the parking lot and “located a pistol with a filed off serial number” under a bag of clothes 
on the passenger seat. After he was read his Miranda rights, Applicant would not make 
any statements in reference to the firearm but stated that both he and Ms.  M used the 
vehicle, claiming Ms. M was the last t o drive it. Ms. M denied ownership of the firearm 
and stated she did not want it in the residence. The officer subsequently seized the firearm 
and Applicant was arrested and charged with misdemeanor assault and battery against 
a family or household member. In March 2016, the court dismissed the charge for reasons 
not stated. At the DOHA Hearing, Applicant initially testified he did not know why the 
charge was dismissed. He later indicated the prosecutor told him, either at his 
arraignment or in a letter, that she was not moving forward with the case, and he believed 
the prosecutor “said something about [Ms. M] going into the military.” (AE CC; GE 3; Tr. 
at 164-167, 174-175) 
At the DOHA Hearing, Applicant denied assaulting Ms. M on December 24, 2015, 
or at any other time. He stated their relationship involved frequent verbal arguments, but 
never physical violence. He remarked that, in hindsight, he should have left the 
relationship earlier than he did and, that night, he should have called the police instead 
of trying to open the door. He denied each detail of Ms. M’s account and then proffered 
his version of events , stating: as he was getting ready for work, he and Ms. M had a 
“verbal argument,” about what he did not recall; Ms. M used her body to block the front 
door to prevent him from leaving to go to work; he pulled the door open so he could get 
out; and then Ms. M called the police. (Tr. 145-147, 153-154, 158-175) 
During later testimony, Applicant indicated a neighbor called the police, not Ms. M, 
and added the following details to his account: he wanted to leave the residence because 
he “felt the situation was just escalating too much. As far as the arguing . . . I would 
imagine [our neighbors] could clearly hear us” and also because he was late for work; 
although Ms. M “leaned completely all her weight” against the door, he did not have to 
touch Ms. M to open the door; he “just open[ed] the door and pulled the doorknob[];” he 
had “one hand on the doorknob, and once I got it open, I put my left hand on the door 
itself;” he did not recall “any time where there was enough space in between the door and 
Ms. M for [the door] to . . . hit back on her.” When asked to address the visible injury 
observed by the officer, he denied he personally observed any visible injuries and 
testified, 
I can't say how it would have happened . . . I mean all I could say is that I 
didn't touch her physically. And unfortunately, it is a lot easier than people 
may assume to take charges out on people or even make up lies, so . . . I'm 
not saying the officer's lying. I would have no way of [knowing] that . . . I 
don't even know what the officer saw, so it's really hard to say how it got 
there . . . 
10 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
  
  
 
   
     
      
      
       
   
   
   
   
 
 
      
   
 
         
  
    
    
    
   
 
    
     
 
[Ms. M’s Child] has been in my life since 2015 . . . when I was [living in the 
United States], he'd come to my house. He's coming to see me now in 
[Country B]. I've always had him. And, again, I can't say what the officer 
saw or did, but I can't imagine someone would witness you harm their child 
and then decide that their child could come with you in another country. So, 
again, . . . I don't know what the cop saw or what he didn't see, or what 
exactly was on her forehead, or what was claimed to be on Ms. M’s Child's 
head. (Id.) 
At the DOHA Hearing , Applicant testified that no criminal charges were filed in 
connection with the firearm found in the vehicle. He acknowledged owning the vehicle but 
denied owning the firearm, stating he was surprised by its discovery. He testified that the 
firearm belonged to his brother and that he believed the bag of clothes belonged to Ms. 
M, both of whom frequently drove the vehicle. Applicant’s brother also testified, stating 
that he legally purchased the firearm from a licensed dealer and left it in the vehicle 
without Applicant’s knowledge, though he was uncertain about the exact date and location 
where he left it. His brother denied ever noticing the defaced serial number on the firearm. 
He also denied ever having been convicted of a felony or a ny crime involving lying, 
cheating, or stealing. (Tr. 89-90, 95, 160, 165-167, 226) 
December 2015 Bankruptcy  Discharge  (SOR ¶ 3.a) . Applicant filed a Chapter  7 
bankruptcy petition in September 2015, reporting liabilities  totaling $51,785,  including a 
$9,146 federal  student loan , as amended in  November  2015. He received a Chapter 7  
discharge in December 2015. He paid all his federal student loans (totaling $25,427) as  
of  June 2021.  He attributed the bankruptcy  primarily to his  lack of emergency savings  and 
falling  behind paying bills  due t o having difficulty  finding gainful employment  following  his  
unexpected separation from the Army. He  also acknowledged he had been living beyond  
his means and taking on too much debt, as he had not yet  learned how  to  manage 
finances.  (Answer 1 at 11-12;  AE T;  GE  2 at 15; GE 15; Tr.  236, 245)  
Applicant consulted an attorney about various options for repaying his debt 
besides bankruptcy, but none were feasible due to his underemployment. He elected to 
file bankruptcy to secure his financial future. Since filing for bankruptcy and securing 
gainful employment, he has managed his finances responsibly, lived below his means, 
and learned about financial management , through his own efforts and with the help of 
financial counselors, including one provided through bankruptcy , and one who currently 
manages his investment portfolio. He established emergency savings sufficient to cover 
six months of expenses, the balance of which was $15,000 as of the DOHA Hearing. He 
utilizes a written budget, contributes to a retirement account, and maintains investment 
properties. He intends to continue educating himself about finances and sharing his 
knowledge with members of his family and others. (Answer 1 at 11- 12; AE N-X, DD-FF; 
Tr. 236-245, 253-254, 293-294) 
TY 2016  and TY 2018 Federal Income Taxes  (SOR ¶¶ 3.b and 3 .c).  Applicant  
timely filed his federal  income tax returns for TY 2015 through 2021, but did not timely  
pay federal income taxes he owed for  TY  2015, 2016,  and 2018. He did not owe  federal  
11 
 
 
 
     
   
 
   
 
   
  
    
    
  
  
   
    
 
    
  
     
   
 
  
 
   
   
  
   
 
    
    
 
    
     
   
 
 
   
    
   
   
      
income taxes for TY 2017, 2019, 2020, and 2021. As TY 2015 was not alleged in the 
SOR, I will consider it only to evaluate mitigation and the whole-person concept. (AE M) 
For TY 2015 and 2016, Applicant initially received refunds and was later assessed 
taxes, late fees, and penalties due to disallowed credits; for TY 2017, he initially owed 
taxes. The Internal Revenue Service ( IRS) sent notices in January 2018 (TY 2015), 
December 2017 and August 2018 (TY 2016), and June 2019 (TY 2018) ; however, they 
were sent to his U.S. address of record, his mother’s residence, and were not timely 
conveyed to him. TY 2015 was resolved via a $801 TY 2017 credit. TY 2016 was resolved 
via a March 2019 installment agreement, with 14 payments totaling $7,839 between April 
2019 and June 2020, and a $510 TY 2019 credit. TY 2018 was resolved via a June 2019 
installment agreement, initiated within two weeks of receipt of the IRS notice, with 12 
payments totaling $7,635 between June 2020 and March 2021. (AE M; Tr. 290-291) 
Applicant attributed his untimely payments to his lack of expertise, mistaken 
reliance on the advice of colleagues, and overseas employment. He specified the TY 
2016 and 2018 issues resulted from errors he made regarding claiming Child 1 as a 
dependent, and reporting his overseas income, respectively. Upon beginning work 
overseas as a defense contractor in 2018, he mistakenly believed that he was not 
required to pay U.S. federal income taxes. He later learned he was obligated to pay taxes 
on foreign earnings above a certain threshold. He resolved the TY 2016 and 2018 issues 
on his own but has since engaged the assistance of a tax professional to ensure timely 
filings and set aside funds for future tax obligations. He planned to file his TY 2022 return 
on time under an approved filing extension and did not expect to owe any taxes. (GE 2 at 
15, 19; Tr. 23, 246-249, 295-296) 
Applicant recognized he should have hired a tax professional at the outset, rather 
than relying on colleagues’ advice . He also realized that relying on IRS installment 
agreements to pay his taxes, despite the benefit of low interest payments, could 
negatively affect his security clearance. Moving forward, he plans to pay any taxes owed 
promptly, using emergency savings if needed, without relying on a payment plan. He does 
not anticipate any future tax issues. (Tr. 246-249) 
January 2017 CU Incident  (SOR ¶¶ 2.a, 3.d) . In  January 2017,  a suspicious  
transfer of $3,742 was deposited into Applicant’s credit  union checking account,  
prompting the credit  union to lock  his account and initiate a fraud investigation.  I n 
February 2017,  the credit union concluded Applicant  was a  victim of  a fraudulent scheme  
that victimized at least one other credit union member, and then reversed the $3,742  
transaction  and closed  his  compromised account.  (Answer 1; GE 2 at 20; GE  16; Tr.  263)   
Applicant denied any wrongdoing in connection with the CU Incident. However, he 
acknowledged his mistake and bad judgment in trusting his sister with access to his 
account, which he later learned she used to facilitate the $3,742 transaction. Throughout 
the security clearance process, he provided varying explanations regarding why he 
allowed his sister access , how he provided her access, and his understanding of her 
12 
 
 
 
    
 
 
    
  
   
      
      
      
     
  
 
    
       
    
     
      
    
     
     
  
 
     
        
     
   
   
       
      
       
     
      
 
  
 
     
    
  
    
   
 
     
 
 
  
     
involvement in the fraudulent scheme. (Answer 1; GE 16; GE 2 at 15- 17, 19-20, 33; Tr. 
229-232, 261-268) 
When confronted during Interview #1, Applicant initially denied knowing his 
account was involved in the fraudulent scheme for reasons not indicated in the record. 
He then proffered the following details: his sister told him that if he gave her $300, she 
could turn it into more money; he gave her $300, which he never got back, along with his 
account number and debit card (just before leaving for Country A); and his sister said she 
would use his account number to return money to him and planned to withdraw cash from 
an ATM using his debit card and then deposit funds into his account (which, to his 
knowledge, never occurred). (GE 2 at 15-16) 
Later during Interview #1, Applicant stated he had not given his sister any money 
besides the $300; and that this was the only time he had given her money. He recounted 
initiating a conversation with his sister after learning his account had been locked, during 
which she replied, “my bad” and “they told me it could be more money .” He explained 
“they” referred to a third party known to his sister by name, but unknown to him. He stated 
his sister said she did not know what the third party was doing but believed it was not 
illegal. He stated this was the first time she mentioned a third party . He denied that his 
sister, or anyone else, had been arrested in connection with the incident, and stated that 
his sister was doing well, without further elaboration. (GE 2 at 16-17) 
During Interview #2, Applicant provided additional details: his sister never 
explained how she would turn the $300 into more money and may not even have known 
herself; he recalled she said she did not really know what was going on and did not name 
the person she had spoken with; and she never brought up a similar transaction again. 
He stated he did not know the outcome of the credit union’s investigation, but after closing 
his compromised account, it issued him a new account and debit card. He also indicated 
that the new account may have been closed for inactivity since he had not used it in a 
long time. At the DOHA Hearing, he explained that he stopped using the new account 
because the credit union restricted it from holding a debit card due to the fraud incident , 
rendering it “useless” to him. (GE 2 at 20; Tr. 268) 
In response to March 2022 interrogatories propounded by DOHA, Applicant stated, 
I do admit to . . . granting my sister . . . access to [ my account] for an 
investment opportunity. . . My sister . . . told me about an investment 
opportunity and that she would need my account information once the funds 
settled . . . From my understanding, my sister transferred money into my 
account and $300 was taken out from the ATM . . . my sister . . . never 
explained to me what happened or what she did. It is clear to me now that 
my sister may have set me up so that she could steal money from me . . . 
(GE 2 at 33) 
In Answer 1, Applicant reiterated his interrogatory response and also asserted: his 
sister “actually attempted to steal money ” from him ; he understood that “money was 
13 
 
 
 
        
  
  
 
     
    
   
   
  
    
 
    
       
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
    
   
   
    
    
 
   
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
transferred into his account, and $300[] was taken from an ATM, which was eventually 
returned to him ;” and he no longer maintain ed an active account with his credit union . 
(Answer 1 at 9-10) 
At the DOHA Hearing, Applicant testified “my sister . . . asked me for $300 . . . it's 
my younger sister, I thought I was helping her out . . . she said she needed access to my 
[Personal Identification Number (PIN)] and my debit card. So that was the information I 
gave to her.” He maintained he did not know her intentions or how the process worked, 
stating “as much as I studied [security] it still escapes me to this day, I don't even know 
how that's possible . . .” (Tr. 229-231) 
On cross-examination, Applicant acknowledged that his sister was an adult at the 
time of the CU Incident (his mother confirmed his sister was 28 years old as of the DOHA 
Hearing). He also had the following exchanges with Department Counsel: 
DEPARTMENT COUNSEL: You gave her more than just the [PIN] for your 
debit card, right? 
APPLICANT: I gave her the debit card and my [PIN]. 
DEPARTMENT COUNSEL: You also gave her the ability to access your 
account on the internet, right? 
APPLICANT: I may have, yes. I don't, I don't believe I, I don't think there 
was any reason to, I mean, all that happened was that . . . as explained to 
me, she removed [$300] after that transfer came in and kept it. I guess that's 
the scam. You transfer money somehow and you remove money before [the 
credit union] catches it . . . Again, she claimed to me that, but as I learned 
later on, it is a scam that happens to millions of people . . . 
DEPARTMENT COUNSEL: You also gave her your account number, 
correct? 
APPLICANT: I believe I just gave her my debit card and my [PIN] . . . 
DEPARTMENT COUNSEL: Your sister asked you to give her $300, 
correct? 
APPLICANT: Yes. Yes. 
DEPARTMENT COUNSEL: And you gave her $300? 
APPLICANT: I did. Correct. 
DEPARTMENT COUNSEL: And this was around the time you also gave 
her the [PIN] and your debit card, right? 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
     
    
     
    
       
     
 
    
     
   
   
 
    
   
  
       
  
     
 
 
    
   
      
 
   
  
  
  
    
   
     
       
 
 
 
    
APPLICANT: That's correct . . . 
DEPARTMENT COUNSEL:  . . . During this conversation you had with your  
sister, she told you that if you give her the information and the $300, she  
would be able to make you more money with that  $300, correct?  
APPLICANT: That's correct. That was the gist of it. (Tr. 34, 261, 263-266) 
At the DOHA Hearing, Applicant’s mother and brother testified Applicant was 
“trying to be helpful to his sister” and did not expect she would “mess[] up” his account. 
His mother said his sister: “scams banks and people all the time to this day ;” had legal 
issues “plenty of times” since age 18, including attempting to steal school computers, 
shoplifting, and an outstanding warrant for assaulting her and her granddaughter. On 
cross-examination, Applicant’s mother confirmed Applicant and his sister were raised in 
the same home. She acknowledged he “probably knew some about” the sister’s criminal 
history prior to the incident, while asserting “due to his military service, he “wasn't really 
around . . . a lot of things happened when he was away . . . he really didn't know what 
was going on.” Applicant later denied he knew any of his sister’s criminal history at the 
time he provided her access to his account. (Tr. 30-36, 92-93, 230-231, 262) 
Applicant asserted he had no intention of being involved in any similar incident 
again. He explained he let his emotional attachment to his sister override his judgment 
but has since learned from the mistake and no longer trusts her with financial matters. He 
understands he “should not give anyone [his PIN] or [his] card or any access ” to his 
account. Once he realized his sister was a criminal, he “stopped helping her,” believing 
she is a “lost cause.” (GE 2 at 16; Tr. 19, 231-232) 
Alcohol Use History  
Applicant has never been diagnosed with an alcohol use disorder , ordered to 
attend Alcoholics Anonymous or a similar program, or been medically advised to abstain 
from alcohol. Since his DWI arrest, he has not consumed alcohol to intoxication and does 
not intend to do so in the future. He found ASAP “very enlightening,” noting the key lesson: 
“no matter how little you drink, if you drink to a point of . . . getting drunk, then there is an 
issue there.” After learning alcohol can be “just as bad as many other drugs or worse,” he 
decided to change his relationship with alcohol. He initially significantly reduced his 
consumption, then stopped drinking hard liquor, and has been abstinent at times, 
including since working in Country B, where it is illegal. At the DOHA hearing, he testified 
that he had become “an advocate for sobriety” and, after an extended period of 
abstinence, realized he no longer needed alcohol. He intended to remain abstinent from 
alcohol. (Answer 1 at 7, 8; GE 2 at 9, 34-39; Tr. 214-215, 220-221) 
Whole-Person Concept  
During Applicant’s military service, he received the [Country A] Campaign Medal 
with two Campaign Stars, Army Commendation Medal, Army Achievement Medal, 
15 
 
 
 
  
  
 
    
      
    
    
 
 
    
    
  
    
    
    
 
 
     
    
    
     
       
 
 
  
    
    
   
    
  
   
      
   
  
      
National Defense Service Medal, Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, Army Service 
Ribbon, and Combat Infantryman Badge. (Answer 1 at 2; AE 3) 
Applicant attributed his shorter temper and higher level of alcohol consumption , 
while in the Army , to his belief that, as an infantryman, he was supposed to act in this 
manner. He cited h is entry into the IT field and a new fitness routine with helping him 
moderate his alcohol consumption, improve his attitude, and become less dramatic. He 
testified, 
It's 100 percent my fault [that we are here today]. I mean there are situations 
where I was 100 percent at fault and then there's situations where I would 
still say, you know, even 70, 80 percent because like I stated earlier, I can 
only control my actions and there is [sic] things I could have done differently 
looking back . . . I'm not going to sit here and say . . . the world's out against 
me . . . I put myself in these situations . . . 
I would just say that  [this whole experience] taught  me. . .  [gave]  me wisdom  
. . .  Younger, I made  poor choices with my  friends, finances, obviously,  
alcohol. But it did allow me to realize the dangers of all these things, and  
how important it is to do due diligence even with friends,  or even family  
members for that  matter . .  .  I learned a lot  . . .  many  of these things did  
happen a while  ago, and . . . it's just not who I  am today at all  . . . I  am a  
husband, I  take care of my children. The only  thing I do is  hang out with my  
wife and my children. I  don't go out  drinking. There is no partying or none of  
that.  And I take my job with security very  seriously  . . . all the  allegations,  
it's just not really a . . .  picture of who I am today . . . ( GE  2 at 9;  Tr.  252-
255)  
Mr. A, Applicant’s former supervisor from August 2022 to April 2023, praised his 
trustworthiness and work performance, rating him number one on a team of four. Mr. A 
acknowledged Applicant did not disclose “any of the details” of the criminal charges nor 
did they discuss his “guilt or innocence.” Mr. A understood the DWI charge “maybe just 
got lost in the shuffle” or was never pursued. Mr. A opined Applicant’s “prior issues” had 
“no impact” on his current reliability or his current ability to do his job.” (Tr. 38-48) 
Ms. B, Applicant’s former coworker and now friend, an Army veteran who has 
known him since February 2019, described him as an “above-board kind of man” with 
“unquestionable integrity.” Ms. B stated, “I did not hesitate to agree when he explained 
the issue with his security investigation." Mr. C, his former co-worker and then supervisor 
from April 2017 to March 2018 in Country A , praised his “personal character and 
professionalism” as “by far the best I've ever had the opportunity to work with.” Mr. C 
described him as “one of the most integral [IT] technicians for the entire [eastern region 
of Country A].” Mr. D, his former colleague and now friend, who knew him for more than 
three years, including working closely with him for a year overseas , prais ed his 
intelligence and work ethic , describing him as “trustworthy” and “extremely honest.” Mr. 
D stated he “thorough[ly] review[ed] . . . all the details.” Mr. E, his friend of 10 years, who 
16 
 
 
 
 
       
   
    
 
  
   
     
   
   
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
    
    
      
     
    
 
knew him since high school and holds a security clearance as a defense contractor , 
described him as “a man of Integrity” and “reliable.” Neither Mr. A, M s. B, nor Mr. D 
specified the nature and extent of their knowledge of the SOR allegations ; neither Mr. C 
nor Mr. E addressed whether they had any knowledge. (AE Y at 1, 2, 3, 5) 
Applicant’s mother described him as “very responsible,” “really trustworthy,” and 
“financially stable.” His brother described him as “extremely responsible in every way 
possible” and a “financial guru,” stating Applicant taught him about money management 
and financial responsibility. His brother opined Applicant : learned from “those mistakes 
he made many years ago;” has not had “any issues or repeat offenses;” has “obviously 
grown up and become a lot more responsible;” and is “just a totally different person than 
who he was.” His brother did not attribute any wrongdoing to Applicant besides the DWI, 
which he testified Applicant “beat . . . in the long run” since it was eventually dismissed. 
(Tr. 32-33, 90-91, 93-94, 97) 
Wife 1. Wife 1 testified  she and Applicant  met in high school and were engaged  
when Child 1  was born in January 2013. She explained they separated and eventually  
divorced  because  “We were not getting along. We were seeing other people. A list  of  
stuff, you name it. It was bad.  We were young  . . .” and we  both “had a lot of growing up  
to do.” Without addressing specific incidents,  Wife 1 stated,  “And a lot of the charges that  
I took out were childish. . . and I wish that I could just take it back, but unfortunately  I  
can’t;”  Applicant is “not who he was  many years ago; ” and he  maintains a close  
relationship with Child 1 . As of the  DOHA Hearing ,  Wife 1 had “absolutely” no fear of  
Applicant for  her herself or  Child 1. (Tr. 54-57, 60-67, 84)  
Ms. M. Without addressing specific  incidents,  Ms. M acknowledged she and  
Applicant “had a lot  of problems” in their prior relationship, which “often led to verbal  
disagreements that  escalated to the point where police were called by  neighbors,”  adding,   
Even though we had many verbal arguments we never physically assaulted 
one another. When the police were called in the past, the claims were 
baseless. Many mistakes were made, we were a lot younger and immaturity 
had a role in our already strained relationship. (AE Z) 
Having had a chance to review the SOR, Ms. M stated that “what’s on paper is just 
simply not who [Applicant] is today,” describing him as a “great father, friend, and a hard 
worker for [his children] and family.” She added, “all of this happened many years ago;” 
they have “a healthy co- parenting relationship,” and Applicant “has been a consistent 
male figure for [Ms. M’s Child] for the last 10 years.” (Id.) 
Wife 2. Wife  2  works for the same defense contractor  as Applicant, supervised him  
when they worked overseas in Country A  from 2018 t o 2 019, and had known  him for five  
years as  of the DOHA Hearing . She  indicated he maintained  a strong professional  
reputation.  She never  observed Applicant commit any violent,  physical, or criminal act . 
She described him as  a great father  and lauded his trustworthiness  and reliability, stating  
17 
 
 
 
  
    
 
    
     
     
   
   
   
      
  
 
    
   
    
  
 
 
     
   
  
    
    
  
    
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
 
    
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
    
  
he is “always talking to his kids and preaching to his kids [and others] about financial 
literacy,” and he pushes her and others to do better for themselves. (AE Y at 4; Tr. 8-27) 
Having had a chance to review the SOR, Wife 2 testified she understood there 
were two assaults, one involving Wife 1 and another involving Ms. M, that were both 
dismissed. She stated Applicant provided details to her about the September 2015 
assault charge involving Wife 1, and that Wife 1 had also “mentioned it” to her, without 
specifying the particular facts she knew. Wife 2 testified that she and Applicant had a 
“great relationship” with Wife 1, and that they had no issues since she first met Wife 1 in 
2020; and that Applicant now maintains a “very cordial” relationship with Ms. M. Wife 2 
opined, 
. . . I just don't think that what [Applicant’s] past was is him now . . . If he 
never even told me, I would [not] have known . . . that was who he was. I 
honestly feel like he's learned from all of his mistakes . . . I'm just saying . . 
. that's not who he is to this day. That's not him at all. (Tr. 10-11, 15-22) 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988) . As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Egan at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” EO 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the AG. These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, 
recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge applies these 
guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative 
judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available and reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” EO 10865 § 7. 
Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant has 
18 
 
 
 
    
 
 
  
 
 
     
  
  
   
     
    
   
   
    
  
 
   
    
   
 
    
 
 
 
  
    
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
     
  
  
  
not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have established 
for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Egan at 531. “Substantial evidence” 
is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. Washington Metro. Area 
Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines presume a nexus or 
rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria listed therein and 
an applicant’s security suitability. ISCR Case No. 15-01253 at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 20, 2016). 
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition by substantial evidence, the 
burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the facts. Directive 
¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of proving a mitigating condition, and the burden 
of disproving it never shifts to the Government. ISCR Case No. 02-31154 at 5 (App. Bd. 
Sep. 22, 2005). 
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent 
with the national interest to grant or continue his [or her] security clearance.” ISCR Case 
No. 01-20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should 
err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Egan at 531; AG ¶ 2(b). 
Analysis  
Guideline J: Criminal Conduct  
The concern under Guideline J is set out in AG ¶ 30: Criminal activity creates doubt 
about a person's judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness. By its very nature, it calls into 
question a person's ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations. 
Having considered all the disqualifying conditions in AG ¶ 31 under Guideline J, I 
find the following warrant discussion: 
(a) a pattern of  m
 inor offenses, any  one of which on its own would be  
unlikely to affect a  national security eligibility decision, but which in  
combination cast doubt  on the individual's judgment, reliability, or  
trustworthiness;  and  
(b) evidence (including, but not limited to, a credible allegation, an 
adm
ission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of  
whether the individual  was formally charged,  prosecuted, or convicted.  
The rec
ord evidence and Applicant’s admissions establish AG ¶¶ 31(a) and 31(b). 
Having considered all the factors set forth in AG ¶ 32 that could mitigate the 
concerns under Guideline J, I find the following warrant discussion: 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
     
      
   
  
     
    
    
   
     
   
    
    
    
      
 
   
    
   
   
   
     
        
   
   
 
        
       
    
   
         
     
(a) so much time has  el
 apsed since the criminal behavior happened, or it  
happened under such unusual circumstances, that it is unlikely to recur and  
does not cast doubt on the individual's reliability, trustworthiness,  or good  
judgment;   
(c) no reliable evidence to support that the individual committed the offense;  
and  
(d) there is evidence of successful rehabilitation; including, but not limited  
t
o, the passage of time without recurrence of criminal activity, restitution,  
compliance with the terms of parole or  probation, job training or higher  
education, good employment  record,  or constructive community  
involvement.  
Gi
ven the absence of a conviction or other substantial evidence, I cannot conclude 
Applicant assaulted Wife 1’s friend or that he owned, or was otherwise criminally 
responsible for , the firearm found in his vehicle. However, t he record establishes he 
cursed loudly while intoxicated on a public beach, disregarding a local ordinance and a 
police officer’s verbal warning ; endangered himself and others by driving under the 
influence of excessive alcohol; and drove with a suspended license. He acknowledged 
the seriousness of these offenses, accepted full responsibility, and took action to prevent 
recurrence. The loss of his military career served as a wake- up call, to which he 
responded by demonstrating a sustained pattern of responsible alcohol use, including 
periods of abstinence. Without an alcohol use disorder or medical directive to abstain, his 
sobriety remains a personal choice , not a condition for security eligibility . I conclude his 
alcohol-and-driving-related offenses resulted from circumstances unlikely to recur and no 
longer cast doubt on his reliability, trustworthiness, or judgment . Accordingly, I find in 
Applicant’s favor: SOR ¶¶ 1.f through 1.h based on the application of AG ¶¶ 32(a) and 
32(d); and SOR ¶¶ 1.j and 1.k based on the application of AG ¶ 32(c). 
Conversely, Applicant demonstrated a troubling pattern of abusive behavior 
toward Wife 1 and Ms. M, for which he accepted no responsibility. He also failed to take 
accountability for his actions involving disturbing the peace, attempt ing to purchase a 
firearm in knowing violation of PO-1, and subsequent failure to appear . Although less 
serious by comparison, the latter three incidents reflect a similarly problematic pattern of 
poor judgment and an inability or unwillingness to comply with the law. Having had the 
opportunity to observe Applicant’s demeanor at the DOHA hearing and considering his 
inconsistent and equivocating statements throughout the security clearance process 
about these matters, I do not find his assertions of innocence credible. 
Three days following the July 13, 2014 incident, Wife 1 submitted a sworn affidavit 
stating that Applicant injured her by attempting to pull her and their then one-year-old son 
from a moving vehicle, and also threatened to kill her. At the PO-1 hearing, she testified 
that the incident caused her to fear for her life , resulting in the issuance of PO-1. In 
September 2015, Applicant was charged with assaulting Wife 1 in violation of PO-1 and 
the order violation itself . At the PO-2 hearing, Wife 1 testified that the incident renewed 
20 
 
 
 
   
       
      
     
         
  
 
       
 
       
      
    
      
     
    
  
    
      
     
     
      
    
  
 
   
   
    
     
    
    
   
   
   
       
      
  
 
 
her fear for her life, resulting in the issuance of PO-2. At the DOHA Hearing , b oth 
Applicant and Wife 1 proffered testimony minimizing his culpability and denying his 
misconduct. However, I find the issuance of two separate two- year protective orders 
compelling evidence of the abusive and threatening nature of Applicant’s actions in both 
instances. That PO-2 provided for no exceptions, even for visitation with Child 1, further 
underscores the severity of his misconduct. 
On the day of the October 2014 incident, Ms. M reported that Applicant injured her 
by grabbing her from behind and choking her to unconsciousness for 10 seconds ; 
Applicant reported that he only pushed her, asserting it was in self-defense. At the DOHA 
Hearing, Applicant claimed he could not recall the incident, challenged both Ms. M’s and 
the officer’s accounts, and asserted that choking someone to unconsciousness would 
necessarily leave visible bruising on the neck. The officer observed bruising on her chest 
but not on her neck, which could be consistent with either party’s account. On the day of 
the December 2015 incident, Ms. M reported that Applicant injured her by grabbing her, 
bashing her in the head, and punching her in the face several times; injured Ms. M’s Child 
by throwing him to the ground; and threatened to shoot him. At the DOHA Hearing , 
Applicant denied culpability for the incident or having engaged in any misconduct toward 
either of them. Despite claiming memory issues, he testified about his version of events 
in surprising detail , including which hand he used to open the door. I find the 
contemporaneous reports and statements more credible than Applicant’s testimony and 
the officers’ observations of injuries provide persuasive evidence that Applicant assaulted 
Ms. M on two occasions. 
Applicant has not been criminally charged or involved with law enforcement since 
December 2015, and his criminal misconduct is limited to a discrete period in his early 
twenties. The abusive incidents arose in the context of emotionally volatile and immature 
romantic relationships that have since ended, with all parties accept ing some 
responsibility; on one occasion, Wife 1 was arrested for assaulting him. He now maintains 
cooperative, stable co-parenting relationships and mutual friendships with both women. 
However, the fact that Wife 1 and Ms. M may not have been entirely innocent does not 
diminish Applicant’s responsibly for his own actions. Although his assertions of innocence 
and versions of events were largely corroborated by both women, they must be weighed 
against the substantial contrary evidence. Moreover, questions of possible bias arise from 
the financial support he provides both women for their children and his recent purchase 
of a plane ticket for Ms. M. 
Regardless of the absence of criminal convictions or conclusive findings of criminal  
assault, the record establishes  that  Applicant engaged in abusive conduct t oward Wife 1 
and Ms. M  on four separate occasions, which alone is security significant. These incidents  
–  viewed together  with one another,  his  other  criminal misconduct, and his lack of  candor  
throughout the security clearance proces s  –  reveal  a pattern of  poor  judgment  and 
inability or unwillingness to comply with laws  that precludes mitigation.  Considering the  
record as a whole,  I cannot  conclude he has been rehabilitated  and have substantial  
doubts about  his  reliability, trustworthiness, and judgment.  Neither AG  ¶ 32(a), 32(c)  nor 
32(d) are established as to SOR ¶¶  1.a through 1.e and 1.i.  
21 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
     
  
 
  
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
     
   
  
    
     
      
 
 
      
  
Guideline E: Personal Conduct  
The concern under Guideline E is set out in AG ¶ 15, as follows: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to 
cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes. 
Having considered all the disqualifying conditions in AG ¶ 16 under Guideline E 
and find the following warrant discussion: 
(c) credible adverse information in several adjudicative issue areas that is  
not
 sufficient for an adverse determination under any other single guideline,  
but which, when considered as  a whole, supports a whole -person  
assessment of questionable judgment, untrustworthiness, unreliability, lack  
of candor,  unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations, or other  
characteristics indicating that the individual may not properly safeguard  
classified or sensitive information;  
(d) credible adverse information that is not explicitly covered under any  
ot
her  guideline and may not be sufficient by itself for an adverse  
determination,  but which, when combined with all available information,  
supports a whole- person assessment  of questionable judgment,  
untrustworthiness,  unreliability, lack of candor, unwillingness to comply with 
rules and regulations,  or other characteristics indicating that the individual  
may  not  properly safeguard classified or sensitive information  . . . ; and  
(e) personal conduct,  or  concealment  of information about one's conduct,  
that creates  a vulnerability to exploitation,  manipulation,  or duress by a  
foreign intelligence entity  or other individual  or group. Such  conduct  
includes: (1) engaging in activities  which, if known, could affect  the person's  
personal, professional, or community standing . .  .   
Regar
ding the CU Incident, the record does not establish that Applicant engaged 
in fraudulent or illegal activity, or that he provided his sister access to his account with 
knowledge that she would use it to facilitate such activity. The facts alleged in SOR ¶ 2.a 
do not otherwise support the application of AG ¶ 16(d) or any other disqualifying condition 
under Guideline E. Accordingly, I find SOR ¶ 2.a in Applicant’s favor. Nevertheless, the 
CU Incident remains relevant as alleged under Guideline F and with respect to evaluating 
the whole-person concept. 
Regarding the nature of Applicant’s separation from the Army, neither AG ¶ 16(e) 
nor any other disqualifying condition under Guideline E is established. The bare allegation 
22 
 
 
 
    
     
      
     
   
       
  
 
     
  
   
   
   
        
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
      
   
      
       
 
    
    
    
   
  
   
   
    
that he was administratively separated for misconduct is not independently disqualifying 
because it is the consequence of his misconduct . The security concern lies with the 
misconduct itself, his DWI, which is addressed separately under Guidelines J and E. The 
record does not establish that the nature of his separation , in and of itself, created a 
vulnerability to exploitation, manipulation, or duress, as he was forthcoming about it, and 
his general discharge was upgraded to honorable in March 2020. Accordingly, I find SOR 
¶ 2.b in Applicant’s favor. 
Regardless of my adverse determinations under Guideline J, Applicant’s full 
criminal history raises independent security concerns under Guideline E, as cross-alleged 
under SOR ¶ 2.c. Specifically, the record evidence and Applicant’s admissions establish 
the general concerns involving questionable judgment and unwillingness to comply with 
rules and regulations and the following specific disqualifying conditions: AG ¶ 16(c) (as 
to subparagraphs 1.f through 1.h, 1.j, and 1.k); and AG ¶ 16(e) (as to subparagraphs 1.a 
through 1.k). 
Having considered all the factors set forth in AG ¶ 17 that could mitigate the 
concerns under Guideline E, I find the following warrant discussion: 
(c) the offense is so minor, or so much time has passed, or the behavior is  
s
o infrequent, or it happened under such unique circumstances that it is  
unlikely to recur  and  does not cast doubt  on the individual’s reliability,  
trustworthiness, or  good judgment;  
(d) the individual has acknowledged the behavior and obtained counseling  
t
o change the behavior or taken other positive steps to alleviate the  
stressors, circumstances, or factors that  contributed to untrustworthy,  
unreliable, or  other inappropriate behavior, and such behavior is  unlikely to  
recur;  and  
(e) the individual has  t aken positive steps to reduce or eliminate vulnerability  
to exploitation,  manipulation, or duress.  
Inc
orporating my comments under Guideline J, I conclude that Applicant mitigated 
the personal conduct security concerns raised by the criminal misconduct cross-alleged 
in SOR ¶ 2.c as to subparagraphs 1.f through 1.h, 1.j, and 1.k, which I find in Applicant’s 
favor based upon the application of AG ¶¶ 17(c), 17(d), and 17(e). 
Conversely, consistent with my comments under Guideline J, Applicant failed to 
mitigate the remaining criminal misconduct cross-alleged in SOR ¶ 2.c. There has not 
been a sufficient passage of time, nor a meaningful pattern of modified behavior , to 
conclude Applicant’s questionable judgment is unlikely to recur. His continued efforts to 
minimize the nature and extent of his criminal history ( such as by emphasizing the 
absence of legal consequences rather than accepting responsibility) raise concerns about 
his susceptibility to exploitation, manipulation, or duress. Considering the record as a 
whole, I have serious doubts about Applicant’s judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness. 
23 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
    
 
    
    
   
  
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
      
      
None of the mitigating conditions are established with respect to SOR ¶ 2.c as to 
subparagraphs 1.a through 1.e and 1.i. 
Guideline F: Financial Considerations  
The concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds . . . . 
This concern is broader than the possibility that a person might knowingly 
compromise classified information to raise money. It encompasses concerns about a 
person’s self-control, judgment, and other qualities essential to protecting classified 
information. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible, 
unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding classified information. ISCR 
Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012) 
Having considered all the disqualifying conditions in AG ¶ 19 under Guideline F, I 
find the following warrant discussion: 
(a) inability to satisfy  d
 ebts;  
(c) a history of not  m eeting financial  obligations;   
(d) deceptive or illegal financial practices such as embezzlement, employee  
t
heft, check fraud,  expense account fraud,  mortgage fraud,  filing deceptive  
loan statements  and other intentional financial breaches of trust; and  
(e) consistent spending beyond one's  m eans or frivolous  or irresponsible  
spending, which may  be indicated by excessive indebtedness, significant  
negative cash flow, a  history of late payments or  of non-payment, or other  
negative financial indicators.  
Regar
ding Applicant’s history of tax and other debt s, the record evidence and 
Applicant’s admissions establish AG ¶¶ 19(a), 19(c), and 19(e). 
Regarding the CU Incident, because the record does not establish that Applicant 
engaged in fraudulent or illegal activity, or that he provided his sister access to his account 
24 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
      
   
   
  
  
 
   
     
     
  
    
 
      
    
  
    
 
 
  
with knowledge that she would use it to facilitate such activity,  neither AG 
¶ 19(d) nor any  
other disqualifying condition under Guideline F is established. Accordingly , I find SOR ¶  
3.d in Applicant’s favor.   
I
 considered each of the factors set forth in AG ¶ 20 that could mitigate the alleged 
concerns under this guideline and find the following warrant discussion: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
und
er such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast doubt  
on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good judgment;   
(c) the individual  has  received or is receiving financial counseling for the  
problem from  a legitimate and credible source, such as a non- profit credit  
counseling service,  and there are clear indications that the problem is being  
resolved or is under control;   
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- f aith effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  and  
(g) the individual has  m ade arrangements with the appropriate tax authority  
to file or  pay the amount owed and is in compliance with those  
arrangements.  
Bank
ruptcy is an acceptable form of debt resolution. Thus, the security concern 
lies not with Applicant’s Chapter 7 bankruptcy itself, but with the surrounding history of 
indebtedness. He demonstrated a track record of responsible action to address his 
delinquent taxes and other debts and improve his financial position. He availed himself of 
the fresh start accorded by his 2015 Chapter 7 bankruptcy discharge, including resolving 
his federal student loans. He learned methods to avoid future indebtedness through 
financial counseling and his own efforts to expand his financial literacy. 
Well before the issuance of the SOR , Applicant established a reasonable plan to 
resolve his delinquent taxes and made meaningful progress implementing that plan. His 
delayed payments for TY 2015, 2016, and 2018 were not motivated by a willful violation 
of his legal obligations and can reasonably be attributed to circumstances unlikely to 
recur. Between April 2019 and March 2021, he paid $15,474 to the IRS to resolve his TY 
2016 and 2018 tax debts. He engaged the services of a tax professional to ensure timely 
compliance of any future tax obligations. He currently lives within his means and manages 
his finances responsibly. I conclude Applicant’s finances are under control, not likely to 
recur, and no longer cast doubt on his reliability, trustworthiness, and judgment . AG ¶¶ 
20(a), 20(c), 20(d), and 20(g) apply to mitigate the Guideline F concerns alleged in SOR 
¶¶ 3.a through 3.c. 
25 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
   
    
    
   
  
      
 
 
    
 
 
       
   
    
   
 
      
    
   
    
 
    
    
 
    
   
   
Whole-Person Concept  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether the granting or continuing 
of national security eligibility is clearly consistent with the interests of national security 
must be an overall common-sense judgment based upon careful consideration of the AG, 
each of which is to be evaluated in the context of the whole person. In evaluating the 
relevance of an individual’s conduct, an administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
I have incorporated my comments under Guidelines J, E , and F in my whole -
person analysis, and I have considered the factors in AG ¶ 2(d). I carefully evaluated the 
evidence and arguments presented in support of mitigation, including Applicant ’s efforts 
to reform his behavior and the favorable testimony of his witnesses. However, he has not 
met his burden to mitigate the pattern of misconduct and poor judgment underlying the 
Government’s concerns. While he claimed to accept full responsibility for his actions, he 
largely characterized them as mere mistakes from which he has learned. He failed to 
meaningfully acknowledge or take accountability for significant aspects of his misconduct. 
His pattern of inconsistent statements and equivocation raises significant doubts about 
the extent to which he has truly reformed. 
Although Applicant was not implicated in any fraudulent or illegal activity related to 
the CU Incident , he demonstrated poor judgment by failing to exercise reasonable due 
diligence to assess the legitimacy and legality of his sister’s proposal . Assuming he 
believed he was funding an investment opportunity and had no knowledge of his sister’s 
criminal history, he provided no consistent or reasonable explanation for why he believed 
she could legitimately grow his funds from the $300 and account access he provided. He 
further undermined his credibility by demonstrating a troubling lack of candor during 
Interview #1 and by providing inconsistent and equivocating statements surrounding the 
CU incident throughout the security clearance process. 
Based on the evidence before me, I am unable to conclude that it is clearly 
consistent with the interests of national security to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance. After weighing the disqualifying and mitigating conditions under Guidelines J, 
E, and F, and evaluating all the evidence in the context of the whole person, I conclude 
that Applicant has mitigated the financial considerations security concerns, but not the 
criminal or personal conduct security concerns. Accordingly, Applicant has not carried his 
26 
 
 
 
     
    
 
 
 
  
 
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
    
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
burden of showing that it is clearly consistent with the interests of national security to 
grant him eligibility for access to classified information. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as required by Section 
E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  Guideline J:  AGAINST  APPL
 ICANT  
Subparagraphs 1.a  –  1.e :  Against  A pplicant   
Subparagraphs 1.f  –  1.h:  For Applicant  
Subparagraph 1.i:  Against Applicant  
Subparagraphs 1.j  –  1.k:  For Applicant  
Paragraph 2,  G uideline E:  AGAINST  APPL ICANT  
Subparagraphs  2.a  –  2.b:   F or Applicant  
Subparagraph 2.c:  Against Applicant (except  a s to 
subparagraphs  1.f  through 1.h,  
1.j, and 1.k, which are found for  
Applicant)  
Paragraph 3,  G uideline F:   FOR APPL ICANT  
Subparagraphs 3.a  –  3.d :  For  A pplicant  
Conclusion  
I c
onclude that it is not clearly consistent with the interests of national security to 
grant Applicant eligibility for access to classified information. Clearance is denied. 
Gina L. Marine 
Administrative Judge 
27 