 
 
                                                              
 
 
           
             
 
 
    
  
       
  
  
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
         
      
 
 
 
        
       
        
     
   
       
  
 
           
       
          
      
Ket~/. 
..s,<,.,.._ ... _r'Jl,.•ia.•= 
:.. ~ 
0 0 
tail ~ 
Q~ 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
f 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 22-01865 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: John Hannink, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Elisabeth M. Baker-Pham, Esq. 
03/21/2025 
Decision 
LAFAYE, Gatha, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to provide sufficient evidence to mitigate security concerns alleged 
under Guideline H (drug involvement and substance misuse) . Eligibility for access to 
classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on March 25, 2022. On 
November 18, 2022, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of Reasons 
(SOR) alleging security concerns under Guideline H. The DOD acted under Executive 
Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 
1960), as amended; DOD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security 
Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the 
adjudicative guidelines (AG) effective within the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR on March 10, 2023 and requested a hearing before 
an administrative judge. On June 14, 2024, the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals 
(DOHA) notified Applicant that his hearing was scheduled to be conducted by video 
teleconference on July 30, 2024. The hearing was convened as scheduled. 
1 
 
 
     
        
          
           
        
  
  
 
            
         
            
       
  
 
         
           
         
     
 
           
         
        
         
           
         
    
 
 
 
         
         
          
           
            
   
          
 
During the hearing, Department Counsel offered Government Exhibits (GE) 1 and 
GE 2, which were admitted in evidence without objection. Applicant testified and offered 
Applicant Exhibits (AE) A through AE F, also admitted in evidence without objection. I left 
the record open for 30 days to allow Applicant additional time to submit documentary 
evidence. Applicant timely offered AE G through AE P, which were admitted in evidence 
without objection. DOHA received the hearing transcript (Tr.) on August 12, 2024. 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted using marijuana from September 
1993 to at least March 2022 , SOR ¶ 1.a , and to cultivating marijuana from September 
2021 to at least March 2022 , SOR ¶ 1.b . He denied having an intent to continue using 
and cultivating m arijuana in the future. Applicant’s admissions are incorporated in my 
findings of fact. 
Applicant is 44 years old. He graduated from high school in about July 1999. In 
August 2020, he enrolled in a small, private, liberal arts college in a different state (S2), 
and completed a bachelor’s degree program in business in May 2005. He married in 
August 2014, and does not have children. (SOR Answer; GE 1, GE 2; Tr. 30-38) 
Since June 2020, Applicant has worked as a n independent contractor for a 
defense contractor , providing services as a lighting designer and operator for live 
performances and events. He previously worked as a full -time lighting designer for a 
private company, from April 2011 until he left the organization in June 2020 . He 
established a business as an independent contractor in about April 2014, and has worked 
part-time since then, providing similar lighting design and operation services to private 
companies and non-profit organizations. (SOR Answer; GE 1,2; Tr. at 71-73) 
In  March 2022, Applicant completed  his first SCA, where he  admitted  he  illegally  
used  drugs or controlled  substances from  about  September 1993  to  at least  March 2022.  
Specifically, he  responded  “yes” to  questions in Section 23, Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug  
Activity, asking  whether, in  the  last  seven  years, he  had  illegally  used  any  drugs  or  
controlled substances; and whether he intended to  use this drug or controlled substance  
in the  future. In  the  comments  section, he disclosed  that  he  was a  “medical marijuana  
patient”  and  that he  followed  his prescription  for  daily use.  In  explaining  his intent to  
continue using  marijuana, he  emphasized  his “prescribed  medical use.” (GE 1 at  31)   
Applicant also admitted in his SCA that he cultivated marijuana from about 
September 2021 to at least March 2022. He responded “yes” to both questions in SCA 
Section 23 asking whether, in the last seven years, he had illegally purchased, cultivated, 
trafficked, produce d, etc. a drug or controlled substance ; and whether he intended to 
engage in the activity in the future. In the comments, he expla ined that having a legal, 
state-compliant cannabis garden at his home where he cultivates cannabis for his 
personal use was more affordable and more secure than purchasing marijuana from state 
dispensaries. (GE 1 at 32-33; Tr. 69-70,92,135,143) 
2 
 
 
      
          
       
      
 
 
            
          
         
              
         
            
          
        
    
 
 
          
           
         
             
         
  
 
        
     
        
         
      
         
         
In his April 2022 DOD investigative interview, Applicant provided more details 
concerning his history of using marij uana, prescription opioid medications, and other 
drugs he experimented with , but he did not discuss his m arijuana garden with the 
investigator. He made the following comments concerning his illegal drug use: 
From  my youth  through  my music career in college, a  wide  range  of 
experimental drugs  were available  to  me. As a  teen  I  experimented  with  a  
range  of psychedelics recreationally. Several times a  year during  college  
cocaine  was used  socially. Any such  use  ended  shortly after pain  
medication  was prescribed  and  I have  no  recollection  of any use  after  2007.  
(GE 2  at 12)  
Applicant started smoking marijuana in 1993 at the age of 12 after he experienced 
an emotionally traumatic event. He did not understand the impact th e event had on him 
at the time , but said his behavior and outlook completely changed, and caused him to 
“act out.” He said he started meeting and socializing with a new crowd of 12 year-olds 
from his sixth-grade class who used marijuana. He occasionally used marijuana with them 
until he had a marijuana possession incident at school, which led to his suspension, a 
guilty plea in juvenile court , and supervised probation with random drug urinalysis tests 
for two years . Applicant said he did not use marijuana during the two-year probation 
period. (SOR Answer, Encl. A at 2-3; GE 1, GE 2 at 7; Tr. at 25-27) 
Applicant resumed  using  marijuana  during  his sophomore year in high  school,  
about a year after the  end  of his supervised  probation. In 1997, his  parents  transferred  
him  to  a small, private  school with  about  50  high-school students.  At the  request  of his  
parents, his new school subjected  him  to  random  drug  urinalysis  tests and required  him  
to  participate  in  drug  education  classes. After changing  high  schools,  Applicant  said  he  
stopped  using  marijuana  and  became  a  much  more focused  and  engaged  student with  
noticeable  grade  improvements. Because  of  this period  of  abstinence, Applicant’s overall  
marijuana  use  during  high  school  was  minimal. (SOR Answer, Encl. A; GE  2; Tr. 27-
30,100-103)   
Applicant had an opportunity to visit his prospective college in S2 with his parents 
before acceptance and he thought it was a good fit. He deferred entry for one year, and 
during his “gap year,” he worked full-time as a kennel manager and surgical assistant for 
a veterinary clinic. He was also in a serious romantic relationship at the time. He said he 
probably used marijuana during the period, but that it was not a significant part of his life 
at that time. (Tr. 28-29,103-105) 
Applicant enrolled in college in August 2000. The college he attended was known 
for its “very cannabis-friendly” environment, and was ranked by one source as “the most 
marijuana friendly college in the country.” (Tr. at 29) It was located in (S2), which he said 
had decriminalized marijuana use in the 1970s. He denied choosing this college because 
of its liberal policy towards marijuana. He said most students in the community used 
marijuana, and that this culture of acceptance led to his increased use of marijuana during 
his years in attendance. Applicant’s marijuana use at that time ranged from a few times 
3 
 
 
          
 
 
       
     
          
          
       
        
        
       
            
            
        
 
 
 
 
             
       
        
      
           
         
   
 
       
           
           
          
         
         
       
      
         
   
 
           
         
a week to a few times a month from August 2000 to about 2005. (SOR Answer, Encl. A 
at 4-6; Tr. 32-38,103-111,114-122,168) 
In about September 2004, Applicant twisted his ankle at a social event . A fter 
several months of severe pain and multiple medical tests, doctors discovered he had 
“tarsal coalition,” a birth condition that causes bones in the ankle to fuse together, which 
can cause severe pain. His doctor recommended medication to manage the pain because 
of the high surgical risk of becoming lame or crippled. He was initially prescribed 
hydrocodone to manage the pain , which worked for a while . However, as his tolerance 
for opioids increased, his prescription medications increase to more potent forms of opioid 
drugs, including Percocet, Roxicodone, and time-released Oxycontin. Over time, he 
developed an addiction to opioids. He said he did not recall using marijuana from late 
2004 to about 2009. However, he admitted experimenting with a wide range of drugs, 
including psychedelic drugs and cocaine, through 2007. (SOR Answer, Encl. A; GE 2 at 
12; Tr. 37-43,117-119) 
In  late  2009,  Applicant  was diagnosed  with  “hyperthyroidism”  or Graves’  disease,  
and  was  treated  for the  condition  using  radiation  therapy. He said  he  used  marijuana  daily 
during  this period  to  help  with  nausea,  and  to  increase  his appetite. He disclosed  his  
awareness  that  using  marijuana  was illegal  at the  federal  and  state  levels, but  said  he  
was more  concerned  about surviving the disease. He said  he  stopped using  marijuana  a  
few weeks after his treatment ended  in 2010.  He said he did not enjoy using  marijuana  
anymore  because  he  started  to  feel  paranoid  after using  it. (SOR Answer, Encl. A;  Tr. 43-
45,119-123)  
In September 2010, Applicant moved back to his hometown in (S1) to live with his 
parents. He said he decided to stop using opioids prescribed for his ankle pain, and in 
December 2010, he flushed his prescribed opioid medication down the toilet . Shortly 
afterwards, he started to experience withdrawal symptoms, which worsened over time. 
He was taken to the hospital and placed back on his opioid medication. He created a plan 
to have ankle surgery, followed by a gradual process to safely stop using opioids with his 
doctor’s help. (SOR Answer, Encl. A; Tr. 47-52,123-125) 
After tapering off his opioid use through his period of physical recovery, Applicant 
said his plan worked and he was able to stop using opioids altogether in late 2011. A 
friend helped him to find full-time work in the music industry in a neighboring state (S3). 
He said he started working in the music industry, first passing a six-month probationary 
period doing menial jobs for the company, but that he quickly moved up after lots of on-
the-job training and hard work. H e developed technical skills in lighting design and 
operation, and eventually work ed his way up to lead light ing director , a physically 
demanding and time consuming job. Over time, his ankle pain returned, and in 2013, he 
was again prescribed opioid medication for pain management. He said he used marijuana 
on social occasions between 2010 and 2015. (SOR Answer, Encl. A; Tr. 51-52,126-130) 
In 2015, Applicant resided in S3 near his workplace . He said he increased his 
marijuana use after S3 passed legislation allowing the recreational use of marijuana. 
4 
 
 
          
               
             
  
 
      
            
          
          
          
        
   
 
          
         
           
           
      
    
 
         
          
       
      
           
       
   
  
        
           
     
          
          
         
         
   
 
         
          
      
        
   
          
        
    
 
Applicant continued to use marijuana while taking his prescribed opioid medication until 
he experienced a heart attack in the spring of 2018 at the age of 37 . He said his heart 
attack caused him to prioritize his health over his work in the music industry . (SOR 
Answer, Encl. A at 14; Tr. 54-60) 
Applicant decided to stop using opioid medications for good in December 2019 . 
He found a new doctor (Dr. H), and she diagnosed him with opioid use disorder (OUD) 
from the opioid drugs prescribed to him starting in 2004. (SOR Answer Encls. A,C; AE A) 
Dr. H prescribed him Suboxone at a dose of 16 mg per day, to start the process of tapering 
his use and dependence on opioids. Over time she was able to reduce his daily Suboxone 
dosage from 16 mg to about 4 mg. He currently takes about 4 mg per day and visits with 
Dr. H monthly. (SOR Answer, Encl. A,C; Tr. 61-64,86-87,92,131,135) 
In 2016, Applicant moved back to S1 to reside closer to his parents. In January 
2020, Applicant resumed using marijuana, this time daily, to help manage his pain. Before 
the law changed in S1, he purchased marijuana from dispensaries in S3, traveled with it 
to his residence in S1, and used it to self-medicate. He said he believed that S1 had 
decriminalized marijuana possession for personal use by limiting penalties for possession 
to a very small citation, if any citation was written at all. (GE 1; Tr. at 132) 
In May 2020, Applicant obtained a medical marijuana card issued through a 
medical marijuana pharmacist and healthcare advisor in S1. (AE I-AE P) He was 
prescribed 3.5 grams of medical marijuana for daily use. (SOR Answer, Encl. A at 16). In 
July 2021, S1 changed its laws to permit the recreational use of marijuana. Applicant said 
S1 also permitted residents to grow and cultivate marijuana in a personal garden , and 
that he started his own personal marijuana garden in September 2021. (SOR Answer, 
Encl. A; GE 1; Tr. 65-71) 
Applicant disclosed his use of medical marijuana to the defense contractor before 
he started working with the team in June 2020. The defense contractor’s chief executive 
officer (CEO) who also worked as the facility security officer (FSO) , confirmed his 
statement. The CEO determined Applicant’s use of medical marijuana did not pose a 
security risk for the organization because he did not need a security clearance to perform 
the job at th at time. Applicant provided a copy of his medical marijuana card to the 
company and remained subject to the company’s drug urinalysis testing program. (SOR 
Answer, Encls. A,C; AE I-AE P; Tr. 71-74,81-82) 
Before completing his March 2022 SCA , Applicant said the defense contractor 
informed him that his medical marijuana use would not prohibit him from being eligible for 
a security clearance. Moreover, a previous legal counsel, also, failed to inform him that 
using medical marijuana would prohibit him from being eligible for a security clearance. 
In his October 2022 response to interrogatories, Applicant said he answered “yes” to the 
question of whether he intended to continue using medical marijuana in the future 
because he did not know or appreciate that using medical marijuana was disqualifying for 
security clearance eligibility. (SOR Answer, Encls. A,C;GE 2 at 11; Tr. 81-84) 
5 
 
 
         
             
             
          
        
   
            
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
          
           
Applicant said he responded to questions in the SCA and his background interview 
in an open and honest manner, and that he was surprised to receive an SOR for using 
and cultivating medical marijuana with the intent at that time to continue doing the same 
in the future. After receiving the SOR, and discussing what it meant with a family member 
and lawyer, Applicant said he understood for the first time that his use and cultivation of 
medical marijuana was disqualifying for security clearance eligibility. He decided to stop, 
and said he would have done so earlier had he known that using medical marijuana is 
disqualifying for security clearance eligibility. (SOR Answer, Encls. A,C; Tr. 84-87) 
In  January 2023, Applicant consulted  both  Dr. H and  his marijuana  pharmacist  
before  stopping  his medical marijuana  use. Dr. H  informed  him  that she  did not  need  to  
increase  his Suboxone  dosage  to  anything  higher than  4  mg  per day. His medical  
marijuana  pharmacist  provided  guidance  on  tapering  and  safely stopping  marijuana  use  
in about a  two-week period. He was not diagnosed  with  marijuana  use  disorder. (Tr. at  
95) He  said  he  destroyed  his marijuana  cultivation  garden, allowed  his medical  marijuana  
certificate  to  expire,  and  informed  his friends and acquaintances that he  stopped  using  
medical marijuana  and  could  no  longer be  around  it.  He  last  used  medical marijuana  on  
February 1, 2023. In  March 2023,  he  signed  a  statement of intent to  abstain from  all  illegal  
drug  involvement and  substance  misuse,  with  an  understanding  that any  future  
involvement  or misuse  would be  grounds for  revocation  of security  clearance  eligibility.  
He has voluntarily taken  and  passed  drug  tests measuring  the  presence  of synthetic  
cannabinoid  taken  in May 2023, July 2024, and August 2024. (SOR Answer, Encls. A,C; 
AE E-AE  H;  Tr. 87-96)  
Applicant submitted  character letters and  awards received  for  his  performance  
while supporting  high-level military ceremonies and  events.  The  CEO  attested  to  his  
exemplary performance  of  duties,  professionalism,  reliability, trustworthiness,  and  his  
respect  for rules.  Applicant received  award  coins  commemorating  his  outstanding  
performance  of duties  in high-level military ceremonial events, including  the  retirement  
ceremony  of  Army  General Mark  Milly, the  20th  Chairman  of  the  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff  
(CJCS)  and the promotion  of the 21st  CJCS,  Air  Force General Charles Q.  Brown, in the  
same  ceremony.  He also  received  an  award  coin in 2021  for his participation  in the  59th  
Presidential Inauguration  ceremony  of President Joseph  Biden. Letters from  colleagues  
and  others praised  Applicant’s consistent support  and  encouragement of  peers, his  
reliability, and  his respect towards others.  His family members praised  and  attested  to  his  
commitment to  abstaining  from  all  future marijuana  use, his dedication  to  his work,  his  
respect for the  DOD mission, and  the  high  standards required  of him. (SOR Answer, Encl.  
C;  AE B  - AE D)  Two  former colleagues  testified  favorably on his professional knowledge,  
reliability, and  trustworthiness,  and  favorably endorsed  his application  for  a  security  
clearance.  (AE E,F; Tr. 75-80,171-186)  
Policies 
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
6 
 
 
 
       
        
 
         
      
       
    
 
           
   
         
      
         
    
 
 
        
              
          
      
  
 
    
    
        
        
       
        
       
          
  
 
 
 
individual is sufficiently  trustworthy to  have  access to  such  information.” Id.  at 527. The  
President has  authorized  the  Secretary of Defense  or his designee  to  grant applicants  
eligibility for access to  classified  information  “only upon  a  finding  that it is clearly 
consistent with  the  national interest  to  do so.” Exec. Or. 10865  §  2.  
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
decision. An a dministrative judge must consider all available and reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865 
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant 
has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have 
established for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for acc ess to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 15-01253 at 3 
(App. Bd. Apr. 20, 2016). 
Once  the  Government establishes a  disqualifying  condition  by substantial 
evidence, the  burden  shifts to  the  applicant  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or mitigate  the  
facts.  Directive ¶  E3.1.15. An  applicant has  the  burden  of proving  a  mitigating  condition,  
and  the  burden  of  disproving  it never shifts  to  the  Government. See  ISCR  Case  No. 02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005).  
An applicant “has the ultimate burden  of demonstrating  that it is clearly consistent  
with the national interest to grant or continue his security clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01-  
7 
 
 
     
    
 
  
 
       
   
 
 
              
  
 
   
 
     
 
 
 
       
       
 
  
 
  
 
       
     
     
  
 
      
      
20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if 
they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531. 
Analysis  
Guideline  H, Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse  
The security concern for drug involvement and substance misuse is described in 
AG ¶ 24: 
The  illegal use  of controlled  substances,  to  include  the  misuse  of  
prescription  and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances 
that  cause  physical or mental impairment  or are  used  in a  manner  
inconsistent with  their  intended  purpose  can  raise  questions about an  
individual's reliability and  trustworthiness, both  because  such  behavior may  
lead  to  physical or psychological impairment and  because  it raises  
questions about  a  person's ability or  willingness to  comply  with  laws,  rules,  
and  regulations. Controlled  substance  means  any "controlled  substance"  as  
defined  in 21  U.S.C. 802. Substance  misuse  is the  generic term  adopted  in  
this guideline  to  describe any of the behaviors listed above.  
AG ¶ 25 describes conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying. Those that are potentially applicable include: 
AG ¶  25(a): any substance misuse (see above definition); 
AG ¶  25(c): illegal possession of a controlled substance, including 
cultivation, processing, manufacture, purchase, sale, or distribution; or 
possession of drug paraphernalia; and 
AG ¶  25(g): expressed intent to continue drug involvement and substance 
misuse, or failure to clearly and convincingly commit to discontinue such 
misuse. 
Applicant’s admissions  and  the  evidence  in this case  establish  that  he used  and  
cultivated  marijuana  during  the  periods  described, and  expressed  his intent  to  continue  
using  and  cultivating  marijuana  in  the  future. AG ¶¶  25(a), 25(c), and  25(g)  are  applicable.  
The following mitigating conditions are potentially applicable: 
AG ¶  26(a): the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or 
happened under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or does not 
cast doubt on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good 
judgment; and 
AG ¶  26(b): the individual acknowledges his or her drug involvement and 
substance misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this 
8 
 
 
        
 
 
 
 
        
    
   
 
 
       
       
           
        
          
           
              
          
       
         
       
 
         
        
     
   
      
        
       
       
        
         
           
   
 
        
     
         
     
           
          
              
      
problem, and has established a pattern of abstinence, including, but not 
limited to: 
(1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts;  
(2) changing  or avoidi ng  the  environment  where drugs  were  used; 
and  
(3) providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug 
involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future 
involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation of national security 
eligibility. 
AG ¶ 26(a) is not fully established. This is Applicant’s first time going through the 
security clearance process. He admitted and testified credibly concerning his 29-year 
history of marijuana use starting at the age of 12. He disclosed his medical marijuana use 
to his CEO/FSO, requested guidance, and was unknowingly misguided to his detriment 
about the consequences of using marijuana before he accepted the position, and before 
he started the SCA process. His decision to continue using and cultivating medical 
marijuana in the future was based on the same faulty information received from his 
defense contractor CEO/FSO, and a former legal advisor who retired before the SOR was 
issued. It was not wrong for Applicant to rely on the advice of his CEO /FSO to his 
detriment. He signed a statement of intent to abstain from all illegal drug involvement and 
substance misuse in the future and credibly testified concerning his stated intent. 
The CEO/FSO did not explain the disqualifying nature of illegal drug use for 
anyone seeking access to classified information, past, present and future. Applicant 
credibly testified that he did not understand that using any federally illegal drug, including 
marijuana, is disqualifying for individuals seeking a security clearance. He expressed his 
belief that he could continue using medical marijuana as prescribed by his pharmaceutical 
advisor, consistent with the laws in S1. It was only after he received the SOR in December 
2022, and vetted it with a legal advisor, that he understood using any federally illegal drug 
is disqualifying for security clearance eligibility. He took steps to taper off his marijuana 
use to avoid interference with his prescription Suboxone. H e advised friends and 
acquaintances that he could no longer participate in, or be in the presence of marijuana, 
and he last used marijuana on February 1, 2023, almost 26 months ago. Applicant 
successfully established he has no future intent to use or cultivate marijuana. 
Applicant is clearly on the right path to abstaining from drug involvement and 
substance misuse. However, I must also consider his 29-year history of illegal marijuana 
use and involvement in three states, and his awareness and knowledge that marijuana 
was then and is now, illegal under federal law. I weighed Applicant’s history of marijuana 
use and involvement against his abstinence of almost 26 months, and concluded that not 
enough time has passed to find that his marijuana use and involvement is completely 
behind him and that full rehabilitation has occurred. I commend the progress he has made 
and encourage his continuance on this path towards success. 
9 
 
 
       
              
      
           
       
     
           
        
     
      
 
 
 
 
 
         
      
      
        
      
     
   
  
 
       
       
         
       
      
       
 
 
        
           
        
          
        
        
       
         
      
  
AG ¶ 26(b) is not fully established. Appellant acknowledged his marijuana use, 
successfully abstained from using marijuana for almost 26 months, and is well on his way 
to establishing a pattern of abstinence. He disassociated himself from other marijuana 
users, changed or avoided the environment where marijuana was used, and provided a 
signed statement of intent acknowledging that any future illegal drug involvement or 
misuse would be grounds for revocation of security clearance eligibility . However, as 
stated in AG ¶ 26(a), not enough time has passed to fully mitigate illegal drug involvement 
and substance misuse security concerns raised by the evidence in this case. Given 
Applicant’s 29-year history of drug involvement and substance misuse , his evidence is 
insufficient to overcome concerns and doubts about his judgment, reliability, and his 
willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the  whole-person  concept,  the  administrative judge  must  evaluate  an  
applicant’s eligibility for a  security clearance  by considering  the  totality of the  applicant’s  
conduct and  all  relevant circumstances.  The  administrative  judge  should  consider the  
nine  adjudicative  process factors listed at AG  ¶ 2(d):  
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. I considered the potentially 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances 
surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under Guideline H in my whole-
person analysis. Many of the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) were addressed under that guideline, 
but some warrant additional comment. 
I had the opportunity to observe Appellant’s demeanor during the hearing and 
found him credible though some facts were forgotten. I carefully weighed the favorable 
evidence, particularly the favorable recommendation by the CEO/FSO and others, 
including two witnesses who testified favorably on his behalf. I considered the periods of 
time Applicant used and stopped using marijuana, regardless of its ill egality, to include 
periods when he was using more potent forms of opioid prescription medication as his 
tolerance to the drug increased. Before his heart attack in early 2018, Applicant increased 
his marijuana use due to its decriminalization in S3, although he was using more potent 
forms of opioid prescription medication by that time. After a period of time, he resumed 
using marijuana. 
10 
 
 
       
          
 
 
 
        
    
 
   
 
   
 
 
           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
After weighing the disqualifying and mitigating conditions under Guideline H and 
evaluating all evidence in the whole-person context, I conclude Applicant failed to mitigate 
Guideline H security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline H:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 1.a, 1.b:  Against Applicant (except as to future intent) 
Conclusion  
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue Applicant’s 
eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Gatha LaFaye 
Administrative Judge 
11 