 
 
  
 
  
         
        
           
             
 
 
  
  
                 
   
   
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
    
    
 
  
 
 
  
    
   
  
   
   
 
  
   
 
 
___________ 
___________ 
DEPART
MENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance  
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 22-02560 
Appearances  
For Government: Tovah Minster, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
11/28/2025 
Decision 
KATAUSKAS Philip J., Administrative Judge: 
This Decision was delayed when all administrative judges were furloughed from 
October 1 through November 12, 2025, during a federal government shutdown due to a 
lapse in federal funding. Applicant did not mitigate security concerns about his drug 
involvement and substance misuse or personal conduct security concerns over his failure 
to disclose his drug use on his security clearance applications. Applicant’s eligibility for 
access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
Applicant submitted his most recent security clearance application (SCA) on April 
28, 2021. On May 2, 2023, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline H (drug 
involvement and substance misuse) and Guideline E (personal conduct). The DOD 
issued the SOR under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified 
Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of Defense 
(DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and Security Executive Agent 
Directive (SEAD) 4, National Security Adjudicative Guidelines (AG), effective June 8, 
2017. 
 
 
 
   
  
   
   
       
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
       
     
 
 
     
   
  
   
    
   
   
 
     
  
    
 
   
     
   
      
     
      
   
 
 
Applicant answered the SOR on July 12, 2023, and requested a hearing before an 
administrative judge from the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA). 
administrative judge. The case was assigned to me on February 2, 2024. On January 31, 
2025, the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) notified Applicant that the 
hearing was scheduled to be conducted in person on March 28, 2025. I convened the 
hearing as scheduled. Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 6 were admitted without 
objection. Applicant offered Applicant Exhibits (AE) A and B, and they were admitted 
without objection. Applicant testified and called one character witness. DOHA received 
the transcript (Tr.) on April 10, 2025. 
Findings of Fact   
Applicant is 42 years old, was married in January 2013 and divorced in April 2016, 
after learning that his wife had been unfaithful and was pregnant by another man. He has 
no children. He earned his bachelor’s degree in December 2007. He served on active 
duty in the U.S. Army from February 2012 until February 2016 when he was honorably 
discharged. 
He has been employed as a federal contractor from 2017 to the 
present. He has worked for his current sponsor since July 2022. He is currently 
enrolled in a bachelor’s accelerated cyber security program. (GE 3; Tr. 39, 45, 64.) 
SOR  
Under Guideline H , the SOR alleged that Applicant: (a) used marijuana with 
varying frequency from fall 2000 to October 2021; (b) used cocaine, to include crack 
cocaine, with varying frequency from February 2014 to January 2016; (c) used marijuana 
and cocaine, as set forth in subparagraphs 1.a and 1.b above, after being granted access 
to classified information in about October 2011; (d) tested positive for cocaine on a 
urinalysis in about January 2016; and ( e) tested positive for marijuana on a urinalysis in 
about 2008. (SOR ¶ 1.) 
Applicant admitted SOR ¶ 1.a using marijuana before 2011 but denied use after 
2012, admitting being in contact with others using but avoided using it himself. (Answer ¶ 
1.a.) He admitted SOR ¶ 1.b . He admitted SOR ¶ 1.c using marijuana and cocaine, as 
set forth in subparagraphs 1.a and 1.b above, after being granted access to classified 
information in October 2011; but he answered that his clearance was suspended from 
August 2014 to January 2016 and that charges (not alleged) were eventually dropped, 
and he never was around classified material. (Answer ¶ 1.c.) He admitted SOR ¶ 1 .d. 
(Answer ¶ 1.d.) He denied SOR ¶ 1.e testing positive for marijuana on a urinalysis in 
about 2008. He alleged that his employer “had a grudge” against him and “stereotyped” 
him to get him fired. He was not fired but “may have smoked marijuana 1 to 3 times that 
year.” (Answer ¶ 1.e.) 
Under Guideline E , the SOR alleged that Applicant : (a)  deliberately failed to 
disclose  on his  September 13, 2011 SCA  his marijuana use set forth in subparagraphs  
1.a above; (b)  deliberately failed to disclose on his  August 5, 2020 SCA his marijuana  
and cocaine us e set forth in subparagraphs  1.a  and 1.b  above;  (c)  deliberately failed to  
disclose on his August 5, 2020 SCA  his marijuana and cocaine use set forth in 
2 
 
 
 
   
  
    
 
  
 
       
   
   
    
  
    
     
  
  
 
 
 
        
     
     
   
   
     
    
      
   
     
       
  
 
     
    
      
   
     
    
 
      
    
  
subparagraphs 1.a through 1.c above; (d)  deliberately failed to disclose on his A pril 28,  
2021  SCA his marijuana  and cocaine use set forth in subparagraphs 1.a and 1.b above;  
(e)  deliberately failed to disclose on his April 28, 2021 SCA his  marijuana and cocaine  
use set forth in subparagraphs  1.a through  1.c above;  and  (f) in his August 5, 2022  
personal subject interview (PSI)  initially  falsified  material  facts about  his marijuana and  
cocaine usage, until he was confronted by  the investigator. (SOR ¶ 2.)  
Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 2 a through 2 e without qualification s. He admitted 
SOR ¶ 2.f “but with a refute,” which is discussed further below (Answer ¶ 2.) 
Applicant’s  Testimony   
Applicant currently has a Secret clearance. It was granted in May 2013 while he 
was in the Army but was placed on hold from August 2014 to January 2016. It was placed 
on hold, because of a domestic case which did not involve his ex -wife. They were 
separated at the time. It involved a woman he was having a relationship with, and they 
were “horseplaying.”  He pulled her wig “in a joking manner,” and she called the police. 
He was arrested, placed in a cell for 12 hours , and released. The Army put him on staff 
duty and required him to take an ASAP (Alcohol Safety Action Program), because he had 
been drinking. He successfully completed that program, and his clearance hold was lifted 
just before he left the Army in February 2016. (Tr. 39-43.) 
Guideline H  
SOR ¶ 1.a (marijuana use from fall 2000 to October 2021). In his Answer, Applicant 
admitted using marijuana before 2011, but he denied use after 2012 admitting only being 
in contact with others using but avoided using it himself. (Answer ¶ 1.a.) He testified that 
during that time period, he used it “very sparingly,” because [part of the time] he play ed 
college and high school football. He used once a year or every other year at social 
gatherings, d uring the 18-year-time period, from age 18 to 35 years old. In 2018, he 
allowed the girl he was dating to blow her marijuana smoke in his face. He was aware 
she was smoking marijuana. He testified he was “pretending” to breathe but then admitted 
that he was breathing. Between 2000 and 2018, he used marijuana on average once a 
year or more often. He never purchased marijuana or used it while in the Army. He did 
not use marijuana after he got out of the Army or actively use it at any time as a federal 
contractor. (Tr. 46-53.) 
In 2018, Applicant was working for a defense contractor, and another girlfriend had 
returned from a trip. She handed him a gummy. He did not ask any questions about it. 
She did not tell him it might have THC in it , because she knew he would not take it. The 
gummies were mixed up (regular and THC). He had no symptoms and did not inform his 
employer. That was the first time he had an edible. In the past, he had only been smoking 
marijuana. (Tr. 53-57.) 
Applicant testified about a trip he made to State A in 2021 with another girlfriend. 
They stopped at a tobacco store to buy drinks, snacks, and cigarettes . He told his 
girlfriend and the clerk that because of his job he could not have anything that contained 
3 
 
 
         
     
  
 
    
    
     
 
    
      
   
   
   
     
   
   
       
 
     
     
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
    
 
    
    
any of your use, set forth above, occur while you had access to classified information or 
while you were ho7din a sensitive position? 
Yes ' No 
a. If"YES," please specify when you were granted access to classified information 
OR began working in a sensitive position and any end date(s), if applicable . 
D;d no--\- <io 6·e<\&t+,'"e.. Wef' K 
oi' IA.S.<? 
THC. He read a gummy package and felt they did not contain THC. He only ate the 
gummies because his girlfriend “pushed” him to do it. He knew they may have had THC 
in them. There are no other incidents involving marijuana use or anybody offering him an 
edible, a cigarette, or anything that may have contained THC. (Tr. 57-62.) 
SOR ¶ 1. b (cocaine use from February 2014 to January 2016). In his Answer, 
Applicant admitted using marijuana and cocaine as alleged. (Answer ¶ 1.b.) He testified 
that he was in the Army during that time, between ages 31 and 32. He had a security 
clearance. He used cocaine sporadically, including crack cocaine, possibly once a month 
or every other month. He had moved in with “this girl.” She introduced him to drugs. He 
met her in September 2013, and she initially hid her cocaine use from him. Soon he 
started using cocaine once or twice a month with her. Then he began using with her family 
and friends. He knew it was a violation of federal law and the Uniform Code of Military 
Justice. He never notified his command of his cocaine use. He tested positive for cocaine 
in January 2016 just before he left the Army. Other than his 2008 positive marijuana test 
and 2016 positive cocaine test, to his knowledge, he has never tested positive for any 
other illegal substances. To his knowledge, he currently does not associate with anybody 
who uses cocaine, and he has not used cocaine since 2015. (Tr. 63-75.) 
SOR ¶ 1.c (use of marijuana and cocaine after being granted access to classified 
information in October 2011). In his Answer, Applicant admitted this allegation but added 
that he “never was around classified material.” (Answer ¶ 1.c.) The following is from GE 
4: 
SOR ¶ 1. d  (testing posit ive for cocaine o n a January 2016 urinalysis).  In his  
Answer, he admitted this allegation.  (Answer  ¶ 1. d.) Applicant testified that he  tested  
positive for  cocaine on a January  2016 urinalysis just before he  left the  Army.  Since  2016,  
he has been tested by employers for illegal  substances and was  never  positive. (Tr. 74-
76.)  
SO
R ¶ 1. e (testing positive for marijuana on a urinalysis in about 2008). In his 
Answer, he denied that he was fired by his employer (not alleged) but admitted that he 
“may have smoked marijuana 1 to 3 times that year.” (Answer ¶ 1.e.) 
Applicant recently finished a substance alcohol class from December 2024 to 
January 2025. In August 2016, he was arrested and convicted in 2017 in State B for a 
4 
 
 
     
   
   
 
 
 
  
     
   
   
  
 
 
      
       
    
  
   
       
   
      
    
 
 
  
    
    
  
    
    
  
 
      
    
   
   
    
     
     
 
   
        
  
 
  
 
DUI. His license was revoked. As part of the plea, he was required to take a substance 
abuse class. He then moved to State C but did not complete the class for State B. He just 
completed the course, so he could have his license reinstated in State B . He also 
completed the course, because he thought it would help his security clearance situation. 
(Tr. 77-81.) 
From 2020 to 2021, Applicant saw a personal counselor and discussed his drug 
use. Applicant has been trying to distance himself from that drug use path. To his 
knowledge, none of his close friends , associates, or family members use any kind of 
illegal drugs. He does not intend to use illegal substances in the future, because it is 
“definitely not worth it . . . [and] could devastate and ruin your life.” (Tr. 82-83.) 
Guideline E  (Failures to Disclose)  
SOR ¶ 2. a (marijuana use from Fall 2000 to October 2021) . In his Answer, 
Applicant admitted this allegation. (Answer ¶ 2.a.) He was directed to GE 1, his 
September 13, 2011 SCA at 20. He testified that he marked “No” to the question “any 
illegal drug use in the past seven years.” He agreed that the SCA covered the time period 
before he completed that SCA. He explained that in 2011, he was preparing to join the . 
. . Army, and he ”was advised by a recruiter to just say ‘no’” to a question about illegal 
drug use “if he wanted to join.” “That was just the quick guidance he gave me.” So, he 
took that advice and did not include his illegal drug use on the September 2011 SCA. He 
agreed that he certified that his responses to the SCA were complete and correct. (Tr. 
83-85.) 
SOR ¶¶ 2. b and 2c. (marijuana and cocaine use while possessing a security 
clearance). In his Answer, Applicant admitted these allegations. (Answer ¶¶ 2.b and c.) 
He was directed to GE 2, his August 5, 2020 SCA at 41. He testified that he checked “No” 
to all questions concerning illegal drug use. He agreed that a correct answer would have 
included his marijuana use, cocaine use, and crack cocaine use. He agreed that a correct 
answer would have also included use with a security clearance that he had been granted. 
(Tr. 85-86,) 
Applicant explained why he did not disclose his drug use on the August 5, 2020 
SCA: 
“The reality was the stigma behind it. I was ashamed. I wanted to distance myself 
and just move past it. I understand, it was the wrong thing to do. ” He was 37 years old 
when he completed this SCA. He had been working as a federal contractor for about three 
years and had served in the Army. He agreed that he certified that his responses to the 
SCA were complete and correct. He agreed that he knew at the time that he had not 
included his drug use and that it was purposeful. (Tr. 86-88.) 
SOR ¶ 2.d (marijuana and cocaine use). In his Answer, Applicant admitted this 
allegation. (Answer ¶ 2.d.) He was directed to GE 3, his April 28, 2021 SCA at 40 to 41. 
He testified that he marked “no” to all questions about illegal drug use and use while 
holding a clearance. Those questions would have covered marijuana, cocaine, and crack 
cocaine. He explained why he failed to include that information on this SCA: 
5 
 
 
 
          
      
 
 
 
 
    
 
    
 
  
 
  
  
 
    
        
              
      
    
    
 
  
    
      
       
  
   
  
   
  
   
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
App.: [It] was a mistake . . . I wanted to be consistent with the other two 
[SCAs] . . . I will state that with the other two it didn’t come up . . . it was a 
shameful past of mine . . . I’m not proud about at all. 
DC: So there had been no adverse consequence to lying in the previous 
two applications, so you lied again in the third one. 
App.: Yes. (Tr. 88-89.) 
SOR ¶ 2.e (marijuana and cocaine use). In his Answer, he admitted this allegation. 
(Answer ¶ 2.e.) 
SOR ¶ 2. f (initially falsified material facts about his marijuana and cocaine us e, 
until he was confronted by the investigator). In his Answer, he admitted this allegation but 
with the following “refute”: 
I was asked during the interrogation why she was conducting the 
interview which at the I time I didn’t know and stated. She allow (sic) me to 
time to figure it out. I then provided a list of answers until she agree (sic) 
when I stated the correct answer and then she informed me that I failed a 
drug test in 2016. From that point she wanted me to explain in detail what 
took place. There I provided detail (sic) information, (Answer ¶ 2.f.) 
Applicant was directed to AE B , his July 12, 2023 statement about his August 5, 
2022 PSI that is part of GE 5. He agreed that on April 14, 2023, he certified that his PSI 
was accurate and made no corrections but that three months later in AE B, he changed 
his “interpretation” of his PSI. He agreed that in his PSI he stated that he did not list his 
drug use or answer honestly in prior subject interviews when asked about his drug use. 
He agreed that he intentionally lied on his security forms and intentionally lied during his 
subject interview because he did not want to be judged on that period of his life. He agreed 
that he was not proud of that period. He also agreed that during his PSI, he changed his 
story and added additional drug use. For example, he changed from a one- time use of 
cocaine in 2015 to weekly and every other week use in August 2015 and January 2016. 
(Tr. 92-101.) 
Department Counsel questioned Applicant to summarize his testimony. Applicant 
confirmed that he used marijuana with varying frequency between 2000 and 2018 . 
(Tr.104-105.) 
A.J.: Department Counsel, I thought you asked a very clear question.  Could you just 
repeat it, or I could ask the court reporter to repeat it?  
D.C.: Sure. I want to be clear. You have admitted to using marijuana, with varying 
frequency, between 2000 and 2018? 
A.J.: Can you answer that, sir? 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
   
    
 
       
        
       
    
 
     
       
     
        
  
      
   
     
  
   
 
     
    
    
 
 
     
   
       
           
       
 
      
      
    
      
   
 
    
     
Applicant: Um. 
A.J.: Yes or no. 
Applicant: I don't believe I did in 2018. 
A.J.: I'm sorry? 
Applicant: I will say yes. (Tr. 104-105.) 
Applicant confirmed that in 2018 a woman 
using marijuana in front of him blew 
marijuana smoke directly into his face in a motor vehicle. He also confirmed that 
in the same year another woman provided him with a gummy he ingested that she 
said that might have contained THC. (Tr. 105.) 
Applicant confirmed that he used cocaine with varying frequency between 2014 
and 2015. He confirmed that he used crack cocaine between 2014 and 2015. He 
confirmed that he used marijuana, cocaine, and crack cocaine at various times while he 
was in the U.S. Army between 2012 and 2016. (Tr. 105- 106.) 
Applicant agreed that he was employed as a federal contractor beginning in April 
of 2017 to the present. He confirmed that he used marijuana at various times while 
employed as a federal contactor. He confirmed that he had been granted a security 
clearance in 2013 and that his use of illegal substances occurred after he had been 
granted a security clearance. (Tr. 106-107.) 
Applicant confirmed that he knowingly falsified information about his prior drug use 
on the three separate security clearance applications he submitted in 2011, 2020, and 
2021. (Tr. 107.) 
Character Witness  Ms.  A’s  Testimony  
In the time the witness has known Applicant, he has been nothing but kind , 
thoughtful, and shown incredible integrity. This hearing was a little hard to sit through, 
because it is not the man she knows. In all of their time together, he has partaken in most 
of her hobbies. They go hiking, they walk her dog, and watch TV shows. He introduced 
her to sports. She has never known him to engage in any of this behavior (Tr. 114.) 
When they were first getting to know one another , Applicant disclosed what had 
happened. Her understanding was that this was a little bit of a spiral going through a 
divorce. Joining the military, trying to serve his country, finding out that the person he had 
married was unfaithful , and in such a despicable way. He spiraled a little bit was her 
understanding of the situation. (Tr. 114- 115.) 
Everything the witness heard from Applicant post that point was that he had 
moved here [State A] to turn his life around. He said he was not engaging in any of that. 
7 
 
 
   
   
    
   
     
    
 
    
   
   
    
    
    
  
       
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
 
   
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
 
She had no evidence that he was. He also shared that he had sought counseling. 
Because originally, he just [thought] he can cold turkey stop the behavior. And that is what 
he did. But he recognized that there was some deeper wounds. He was really upset about 
the situation with his ex-wife and that if he didn't address that situation it was possible that 
he could get upset again. So he sought counseling.  All of her experience with him is that 
he is kind, respectful, and responsible. (Tr. 114-115.) 
The witness is employed as the director of a teacher residency program. She does 
not hold a security clearance and has never held one. Prior to today's hearing, she w as 
aware of the issues that were listed in the Statement of Reasons . She sat through the 
entire hearing. Nothing that was discussed today was a surprise to her.  She was aware 
of all of that prior conduct. The witness has known him since October 2021. She has 
never witnessed hi m using any illegal substances . Nothing has come up in her 
relationship where she has questioned his truthfulness or his trustworthiness as it relates 
to him, her household, or any aspect of their relationship. (Tr. 116-117.) 
The witness  testified that  Applicant was  homeowner,  is  selling his home, and  is  
moving into her  home. She  would not allow him in her  home if that behavior was going  
on.  In every situation  and  conversation,  it always comes down to,  that  he  did this to  
himself. He takes responsibility every single time,  and he has not done anything like this  
since she has  known him.  She does  not anticipate that he would do it again.  (Tr. 117-
119.)  
Law and Policies  
It is well established that no one has a right to a security clearance. As the 
Supreme Court has held, “the clearly consistent standard indicates that security 
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of Navy v. 
Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988). The DOHA Appeal Board has followed the Court’s 
reasoning, and a judge’s findings of fact are reviewed under the substantial -evidence 
standard. Substantial evidence means “evidence that a reasonable mind could accept as 
adequate to support a conclusion; evidence beyond a scintilla. ” 484 U.S. at 531 . 
Substantial evidence is a lesser burden than both clear and convincing evidence and 
preponderance of the evidence, the latter of which is the standard applied in most civil 
trials. 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the  
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the  
factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching  
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a),  
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of several variables known as the “whole-
8 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
      
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. Likewise, I have not drawn inferences grounded on mere 
speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified inform ation. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Analysis  
Guideline H: Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse  
AG ¶ 24 details the security concern for drug involvement: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription drugs, and the use of other substances that can cause physical 
or mental impairment or are used in a manner inconsistent with their 
intended use can raise questions about an individual’s reliability and 
trustworthiness, both because such behavior may lead to physical or 
psychological impairment and because it raises questions about a person’s 
ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations. Controlled 
substance means any “controlled substance” as defined in 21 U.S.C 802. 
Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in this guideline to describe 
any of the behaviors listed above. 
I have considered the disqualifying conditions for drug involvement under AG ¶ 25 
and the following are potentially applicable: 
(a)  any substance misuse (see above definition);   
9 
 
 
 
 
   
   
    
   
 
  
  
    
 
  
 
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
(b) testing positive for an illegal drug; and  
(f) any illegal drug use while granted access to classified information or  
hold
ing a sensitive position.   
Appli
cant’s admissions and testimony established by substantial evidence that he 
used illegal drugs as alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b. That evidence also established that 
he tested positive for illegal drugs as alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.d and 1.e. Thus , AG ¶¶ 25(a) 
and (b) apply. 
Although Applicant admitted he had access to classified information, as alleged in 
SOR ¶ 1.c , he further answered that he “never was around classified material.” His 
response to an interrogatory was: “Did not do sensitive work or use.” In ISCR Case No. 
20-03111 at 3 (App. Bd. Aug. 10, 2022), the Appeal Board held that access to classified 
information has two elements in addition to eligibility. They are that: (1) an applicant must 
have signed a nondisclosure agreement (NDA); and (2) an applicant must have a need-
to-know (NTK). In this case, there is no evidence that he signed an NDA or had a NTK. 
This allegation has not been established. 
The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 26 are potentially applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or happened 
under
 such circumstances that it is unlikely  to recur or  does not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;   
(b)the individual acknowledges his or her drug involvement and substance  
mi
suse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and 
has established a pattern of abstinence, including, but not limited to:  (1)  
disassociation from drug- using associates and contacts;  (2) changing or  
avoiding the environment where drugs were used; and (3) providing a  
signed statement of intent  to abstain from all  drug involvement and  
substance misuse, acknowledging that any future involvement is grounds  
for revocation of national security eligibility; and  
(d)satisfactory com pletion of a prescribed drug treatment  program,  
including  but not limited to,  rehabilitation and aftercare requirements , 
without recurrence of  abuse, and a favorable prognosis  by a duly qualified  
medical professional.   
I have considered mitigating condition AG ¶ 26(a).  Applicant’s use of illegal drugs  
originated in 2000. It  plagued him until at least 2018 or  beyond. Those drugs  included  
marijuana, cocaine,  and crack cocaine. He used  illegal drugs while on active duty in the 
U.S. Army  and later while a civilian working for  a defense contractor  from 2017 to the 
present.  The beginning of his illegal  drug use may have begun years ago, but it was  not  
at all infrequent  thereafter. Testing positive for marijuana in 2008 and for cocaine in 2016  
did not deter him.  With his  long history  of drug abuse, it is difficult  to  find that it  is  unlikely  
10 
 
 
       
     
 
  
    
     
  
  
  
       
    
     
   
  
   
 
   
   
 
  
   
    
   
    
   
   
    
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
  
 
   
 
to recur. Ms. A’s honest and informed testimony offers some hope for his future. That 
alone, however, is not sufficient to find that mitigating condition AG ¶ 26(a) applies. 
I have considered mitigating condition AG ¶ 26 (b), which has two key elements, 
the first of which is an acknowledgement of his drug involvement and substance misuse. 
Here, Ms. A testified that she was familiar with the SOR and that Applicant fully disclosed 
to her his drug involvement and substance misuse. He also reiterated that 
acknowledgement in his testimony. That first element has been satisfied. The second key 
element is that he show an established period of abstinence, and it provides a 
nonexclusive list of three considerations. The first two are his disassociation from drug-
using associates and a change in the environment where drugs were used. His now close 
relationship with Ms. A since 2021 and their plan to cohabitate satisfies these two 
considerations. The third consideration is a signed statement of intent to abstain from all 
drug involvement and substance misuse in the future with the sanction being the 
revocation of his security clearance. This is not a mere formality , and it is missing here. 
Even if there were such a statement, on this record, he has not shown a pattern of 
abstinence sufficient to mitigate his decades-long drug abuse and substance misuse. 
Mitigating condition AG ¶ 26(b) does not apply. 
Finally, I have considered mitigating condition AG ¶ 26 (d). In about August 2014 
while in the U.S. Army, after a domestic dispute involving alcohol, Applicant was ordered 
to take an ASAP. He successfully completed that program. In August 2017, he was 
convicted of DUI and ordered to complete a similar program. Because he relocated to a 
different state, he did not complete that program until January 2025. More recently, he 
has sought counseling to address lingering issues caused by his divorce. Neither of those 
programs, although no doubt helpful, were prescribed drug treatment program s 
contemplated by AG ¶ 26(d). Therefore, that mitigating condition does not apply. 
Guideline E: Personal Conduct   
AG ¶ 15 details the security concerns for personal conduct: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions about 
an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or 
sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to cooperate or provide 
truthful or candid answers during national security eligibility investigative or 
adjudicative processes. The following will normally result in an unfavorable 
national security eligibility determination, security clearance action, or 
cancellation of further processing for national security eligibility: 
I considered the following disqualifying condition under AG ¶ 16: 
(a) deliberate omission, concealment, or falsification of relevant facts from  
any personnel security questionnaire, personal history statement,  or similar  
form used to conduct investigations, determine employment qualifications,  
11 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
     
 
 
  
   
 
    
 
 
      
   
   
    
     
   
   
    
    
     
   
  
   
      
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
     
   
 
   
     
    
   
   
award benefits or status, determine national security eligibility or  
trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities.  
Applicant’s admissions and testimony established by substantial evidence that he 
falsified material facts as alleged in SOR ¶¶ 2.a through 2.e as follows: 
In his September 13, 2011 SCA by deliberately failing to disclose his 
marijuana use as set forth in SOR ¶ 1.a; 
in his August 5, 2020 SCA by deliberately failing to disclose his 
marijuana and cocaine use as set forth in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.c; and 
in his April 28, 2021 SCA by deliberately failing to disclose his 
marijuana and cocaine use as set forth in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.c. 
SOR ¶ 2.f alleged that in his August 5, 2022 PSI Applicant initially falsified 
material facts about his marijuana and cocaine us e, until he was confronted by the 
investigator. In his Answer, he admitted this allegation but with a “refute.” The first 
sentence of this “refute” is: “I was asked during the interrogation why she was conducting 
the interview which at the I time I didn’t know and stated.” (Emphasis added.) By the time 
of this PSI, he had been through the security clearance process in 2011, 2020, and 2021. 
The idea that he did not know in 2022 why this interview was being conducted is simply 
not credible. The “refute” went on: “She allow (sic) me to time to figure it out.” It shows 
he was just trying to buy some time. Ultimately, after this exchange, he disclosed the full 
extent of his drug involvement and substance misuse. SOR ¶ 2.f has been established 
by substantial evidence. 
The evidence has established SOR ¶¶ 2.a through 2.f. Therefore, disqualifying 
condition AG ¶ 16(a) applies. AG ¶¶ 17(a) through (g) sets forth seven mitigating 
conditions under Guideline E . I have carefully reviewed each of those conditions, and 
none of them apply to the facts of this case. 
Whole-Person Concept 
 
Under A
G ¶ 2(a), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. AG ¶¶ 2(a) and (d)(1)-(9) 
(explaining the “whole-person” concept and factors). In my analysis above, I considered 
the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions and the whole- person concept in 
light of all the facts and circumstances surrounding this case. Two issues are presented. 
First, Applicant has engaged in drug use and substance misuse since 2000. 
Although he attributed much of his drug involvement to his admittedly painful divorce in 
2016, his drug use began in 2000, which preceded his divorce by more than a decade 
and a half.  Although he has completed two ASAP programs and sees a personal 
counselor, he has not attended a prescribed drug treatment program contemplated by 
12 
 
 
  
   
 
        
    
      
 
 
     
 
  
 
 
     
 
   
 
 
  
 
    
   
   
   
   
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
AG ¶ 26(d). He should consider such a program, not just for security clearance purposes 
but for his own health. 
Second, Applicant intentionally lied on his 2011, 2020, and 2021 SCAs. He did so, 
because he was not proud of his shameful past. Serial lying on those questionnaires , 
however, was not the answer to getting beyond that past. In fact, it exacerbated that past 
and is not easily mitigated. 
Applicant leaves me with serious questions about his eligibility and suitability for a 
security clearance. Therefore, I conclude that Applicant has not provided sufficient 
evidence to mitigate the security concerns arising under Guideline H , drug involvement 
and substance misuse, and Guideline E, personal conduct. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline H:   AG
 AINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.b:  Against Applicant  
Subparagraph 1.c:   For Applicant  
Subparagraphs 1.d-1.e:  Against Applicant  
Paragraph 2, Guideline E:   AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 2.a-2.f:  Against  Applicant  
Conclusion  
Consi
dering all of the circumstances, it is not clearly consistent with the interests 
of national security to grant Applicant a security clearance. Eligibility for access to 
classified information is denied. 
Philip J. Katauskas 
Administrative Judge 
13 