                                                              
 
 
                                                                                                                    
          
           
             
 
 
 
  
  
         
   
   
 
 
  
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
  
 
 
 
     
   
    
   
   
     
  
   
______________ 
______________ 
DEPART
MENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 23-02250 
Appearances  
For Government: Erin Thompson, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Sean D. Rogers, Esq. 
06/09/2025 
Decision 
HOGAN, Erin C., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant mitigated the security concerns under Guideline H , Drug Involvement 
and Substance Misuse. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on March 16 , 2023. 
(Government Exhibit (GE) 1) The Defense Counterintelligence & Security Agency (DCSA) 
issued Applicant a Statement of Reasons (SOR) on November 9, 2023, detailing security 
concerns under Guideline H . DCSA acted under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, 
Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; 
Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security 
Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and Security 
Executive Agent Directive 4, National Security Adjudicative Guidelines , effective within 
the DOD as of June 8, 2017. 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
   
    
     
    
    
   
   
 
    
  
 
 
       
 
 
     
     
     
  
  
   
      
 
  
         
     
   
    
    
 
 
    
   
      
      
       
  
 
    
Applicant answered the SOR and elected a hearing before an administrative judge 
of the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA). The DOHA Hearing Office 
received the case on May 16, 2024, and it was assigned to me on December 9, 2024. On 
December 19, 2024, a Notice of Hearing was issued scheduling the hearing for February 
18, 2025. The hearing was held on that date. Department Counsel offered four exhibits 
which were marked and admitted as GE 1 - 4 without objection. Applicant through his 
counsel offered 19 exhibits which were marked and admitted as Applicant Exhibits (AE) 
A - S without objection. Applicant testified and called five witnesses during the hearing. 
The transcript (Tr.) was received on February 28, 2025. 
Several names and other facts have been modified to protect Applicant’s privacy 
interests. More detailed facts can be found in the record. 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted all of the SOR allegations. Applicant’s 
admissions are accepted as findings of fact. 
Applicant is 38 years old. He has been employed by a DOD contractor (Employer 
#3) since August 2023. He was first granted a security clearance in 2015. He earned his 
undergraduate degree in 2011. From 2011 to 2013, he worked for a corporation and did 
not require a security clearance. In August 2013 to May 2015, he pursued his master ’s 
degree. Upon graduation, he worked for a government agency (Employer #2). This is the 
first time he applied for a security clearance. He left in 2017 to study for a doctorate (PhD). 
During this time, he began to work remotely for Employer #2 in 2019 and applied for a 
security clearance a second time in September 2019. He is not sure whether the security 
clearance was granted. He did not handle classified information because he worked 
remotely. In 2021, he earned his PhD. His impressive scholarship resulted in an offer to 
work on post-doctorate studies for a renowned professor at a prestigious university. He 
accepted the offer and worked there until August 2023 , when he started work with his 
current employer, Employer #3. He married in September 2024 and has no children. (Tr. 
20-35, 53; GE 1 – GE 3) 
The SOR alleges under Guideline H that Applicant used psilocybin -laced 
chocolates with varying frequency from about November 2021 to about J anuary 2023 
(SOR ¶ 1.a: GE 1 at 45; GE 4 at 5); used marijuana (Delta-9 THC) with varying frequency 
from about October 2005 to about April 2022 (SOR ¶ 1.b: GE 2 at 42-43; GE 3 at 39-40; 
GE 4 at 5, 11, 17); and used Delta-8 THC with varying frequency from about September 
2021 to about January 2021 (SOR ¶ 1.c: GE 1 at 44; GE 4 at 5). 
Additional Guideline H allegations inc lude: Applicant used the presc ription 
medication Adderall without a prescription from about August 2009 to about May 2011 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
  
   
   
   
 
  
  
 
 
    
   
  
    
  
 
         
 
    
  
       
     
  
     
  
     
 
   
  
      
  
  
         
 
     
  
    
     
   
      
   
(SOR ¶ 1. d: GE 3 at 40; GE 4 at 17); from about October 2021 until about November 
2022, he provided Adderall, a drug prescribed to him, to another person (SOR ¶ 1.e: GE 
4 at 6); and mailed Delta-8 THC products overseas to his girlfriend, who was living in her 
home country from about October 2021 to about November 2022. (SOR ¶ 1. f: GE 1 at 
46; GE 4 at 5-6). 
Under the Personal Conduct concern, SOR subparagraphs 1,e and 1.f were cross-
alleged. 
GUIDELINE H –  Drug Involvement  
Applicant began using marijuana around October 2005 when he was an 
undergraduate college student. His marijuana use varied between one to three times a 
month. His college roommates smoked marijuana. He would use marijuana to calm his 
anxiety and to help him sleep. When he graduated from college in 2011, he was hired by 
Employer #1.  He worked there for two years. This job did not require a security clearance. 
He never used marijuana while working for Employer # 1 because he was aware of the 
safety issues on his job. (Tr. 15-20; GE 2 at 42-43; GE 3 at 39-40; GE 4 at 5, 11, 17) 
From approximately August 2009 to approximately May 2011, Applicant used 
Adderall, a drug not prescribed to him, on approximately 15-20 occasions during his last 
two years of undergraduate coursework to help him study for final examinations. A friend 
provided him Adderall on several occasions. Applicant ’s mother also provided him with 
Adderall. She had a legal prescription and wanted him to succeed in his studies. Applicant 
later consulted with a psychiatrist and was diagnosed with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity 
Disorder (ADHD) and has been legally prescribed Adderrall or a close substitute, Vyvanse 
since 2011. (Tr. 17-19; GE 3 at 40; GE 4 at 17) 
Applicant resigned his position with Employer # 1 to attend graduate school . He 
occasionally used marijuana while in graduate school. He lived with other students and 
marijuana use was prevalent. From August 2013 to May 2015, he estimated that he used 
marijuana less than ten times while in graduate school. He stopped using marijuana 
around February 2014, because his graduate program was very demanding and he 
needed to focus on his studies. (Tr. 22; GE 3 at 39-10; GE 4 at 5, 11, 17) 
After completing his master’s program, Applicant was hired to work at Employer # 
2, a federal government agency. His job required him to have a security clearance, h e 
submitted his first SCA on May 13, 2015. In response to Section 23 - Illegal Use of Drugs 
or Drug Activity, he fully disclosed his past marijuana use. He also fully disclosed his use 
of Adderall without a prescription in response to Section 23 – Misuse of Prescription 
Drugs. (GE 3 at 39-40) He worked for Employer # 2 from June 2015 to August 2017. He 
never used illegal drugs to include marijuana during the period he worked for Employer 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
     
  
    
    
       
   
   
 
  
     
  
   
       
    
    
  
  
     
 
   
   
    
    
       
      
#2. He was eventually granted a security clearance and worked on classified projects 
during the last seven months of his employment with Employer # 2. (Tr. 23-28; GE 1 at 
14) 
In August 2017, Applicant stopped working full time for Employer # 2 to study for 
his Doctorate of Philosophy (PhD). He earned his PhD in December 2020. He did not use 
marijuana while he worked in his PhD program. He worked for Employer # 2 from May 
2019 to August 2019, during his summer break. He also applied for a security clearance 
a second time on September 18, 2019. (GE 2) He is not sure whether he was granted a 
security clearance. From January 2021 to August 2021, he worked remotely for Employer 
#2 on a part-time basis. He never handled classified information because he was working 
remotely. (Tr. 28-32; GE 1 at 14) 
Upon completion of his PhD, Applicant was offered a position to perform post -
doctoral research with a renowned professor at a prestigious university. He believed it to 
be once in a lifetime opportunity and accepted the position and started in September 
2021. He rented a house with three other PhD students. Several of his roommates used 
marijuana. From November 2021 to around April 2022, he used marijuana with them 
around three times. A joint would be passed around and shared. Applicant’s girlfriend, 
now wife, resided in another country. She would visit Applicant several times a year. He 
estimates that he used marijuana with her about ten times between November 2021 to 
April 2022. He would purchase marijuana from a state dispensary. Marijuana was legal 
in the state where Applicant resided. (Tr. 33-35, 41-42; GE 1 at 45; GE 4 at 5) 
In September 2021 to about  January  2023, Applicant used Delta-8 THC  edibles.  
He purchased these at the state dispensary  where he resided.  He was not sure if the  
Delta-8 THC  edibles were federally legal. He asked a salesman at the st ate dispensary  
where he purchased the edibles about this. The salesman told him that the Delta-8 edibles  
were legal under federal law because they contained less than the legal amount of  Delta-
9 THC. Applicant  was confused about whether  the Delta-8 THC edibles were illegal.  From 
September 2021 to May 2022, h e would ingest  a half edible on av erage of 2-3 times a  
month. He said they  helped him  calm down before he went to sleep.  After May 2022, he 
did not  use t hem as much because h e did not enjoy  them  anymore.  He stopped using 
them  for  a few  months in the fall 2022. His l ast use occurred between December 2022  
and January 2023. He  ingested one  Delta-8  gummy when his girlfriend was visiting.   (Tr.  
37-38; GE 1 at 44;  GE 4 at 5)   
From about February 2022 to about February 2023, Applicant mailed Delta-8 THC 
products overseas to his girlfriend. She suffered post-traumatic stress disorder from being 
the victim of two prior sexual assaults and depression. She told him that taking Delta-8 
THC helped her. He admits that this was a stupid thing to do. He believes that they were 
illegal in the country where his girlfriend resided. (Tr. 38-39; GE 1 at 46; GE 4 at 5) 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
   
     
   
     
     
      
     
 
 
  
 
      
     
   
 
 
   
    
   
    
   
   
   
 
    
     
    
       
      
    
  
  
 
   
  
 
   
      
From about November 2021 to about January 2023, Applicant used and purchased 
psilocybin-laced chocolate with varying frequency. He became interested in psilocybin 
because of published clinical research studies that treatment with psilocybin can be 
beneficial for people with depression. He thought it would help with his girlfriend’s 
depression. He also used it. He purchased it from the state dispensary and used it about 
four times. He used it once in November 2021 with a friend; once in January 2022 with 
his roommate and his girlfriend; once in June 2022 with his roommate , and once in 
January 2023 with his girlfriend. He does not intend to use it in the future. (Tr. 44-47: GE 
1 at 45; GE 4 at 5) 
Applicant testified that when he purchased the Delta-8 THC gummies, the Delta-9 
THC, and the psilocybin-laced chocolate, they were listed as controlled substances and 
were illegal under Federal law. Delta-8 and Delta-9 THC products were legal in the state 
where he resided. The record is not clear as to whether psilocybin was legal in the state 
where he resided. It is noted that he purchased it at the same state dispensary where he 
purchased the Delta-8 and Delta-9 THC. (Tr. 43) 
In addition to his testimony, Applicant submitted a written statement during the 
hearing. He expressed regret for his past involvement in illegal drugs. He acknowledged 
his mistakes and is deeply remorseful. He is now at a very different stage in his life. He 
is working on building a career and fostering a stable environment for his family. He is 
now married and lives with his wife. He admits that he stated in 2015 that he would no 
longer use illegal drugs but later did use illegal drugs. He states : “There are no such 
circumstances under which I would consider any involvement with illegal drugs again, 
with or without an active security clearance.” (AE S) 
Applicant states that he never knowingly engaged in any illegal activities while 
holding a security clearance in the past. His past actions when he possessed a security 
clearance have always been in strict accordance with the law and responsibilities 
entrusted to him. He fully disclosed his history of past illegal drug use and has never tried 
to conceal information about his past. He is willing to undergo drug testing at any desired 
frequency at his own expense. He is open to any other measures that might help address 
any concerns and prove his reliability and integrity. His holds the security of the U.S. in 
the highest regard and would never consciously engage in behavior that jeopardizes the 
well-being and safety of the country. (AE S) 
On December 28, 2023, Applicant signed a pledge to abstain from all illegal drugs, 
to include marijuana. He acknowledged that any future use of illegal drugs will be grounds 
for revocation of his security clearance and any national security eligibility. (Tr. 47; AE E) 
He provided samples of his hair for hair follicle tests for illegal drug use on December 23, 
2023, and February 6, 2025. Both tests were negative for illegal drugs. (AE F; AE Q) His 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
     
   
    
 
 
      
      
      
     
  
    
      
  
 
     
   
  
  
    
   
 
     
 
   
 
 
  
  
  
   
     
    
   
 
 
wife has stopped using illegal drugs and is working with a therapist to deal with her PTSD 
and depression. (Tr. 54) 
Guideline E  –  Personal Conduct  
The allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.e and 1.f were cross -alleged under this Guideline. 
The facts are the same as mentioned under Guideline H and are more relevant to the 
concerns raised under Guideline H. Guideline E is found for Applicant. 
Whole-Person Evidence  
Several of Applicant’s superiors and colleagues either testified or wrote letters on 
his behalf. Mr. A.B. met Applicant when he began working at Employer #3 about one and 
a half years ago. He describes Applicant as one of the more effective staff members he 
has worked with. They have worked together often on large projects. Applicant has a fairly 
unique expertise which is very useful. He is aware of Applicant’s past drug use. He 
describes Applicant as a very trustworthy person and an extremely valuable asset to the 
workplace. Mr. A.B. has the highest possible confidence that he would keep confidential 
information secure. (Tr. 65-70) 
Mr. T.A. was a fellow doctoral student with Applicant around 2017 and they 
continue to be friends. He describes the doctoral program as very stressful. Applicant did 
brilliantly. Mr. T.A.’s advisor told him that Applicant was the most brilliant mind to come 
through the department in years. He has a very strong work ethic. He trusts Applicant 
because he keeps his word. After he left to attend his post-doctoral work, he continued to 
help doctoral students on their projects even though it was not required. (Tr. 71-76.) 
Mr. M. was Applicant’s roommate from August 2021 to August 2023 when 
Applicant was doing his post -doctoral work. They remain friends and talk every few 
weeks. He describes Applicant as an incredibly reliable person and very trustworthy. (Tr. 
78-83) 
Ms E.A. is a PhD student at the university where Applicant worked on his post -
doctoral work. They are in the same field and worked together in the same laboratory for 
two years from 2021 to 2023. She described Applicant as the most hard-working member 
in the lab. He was very selfless and willing to help people. When she arrived at the 
university, he helped her from day one. He took the time to mentor her even though he 
had a very busy schedule. Applicant still helps her remotely on her final project in his 
spare hours. He is a very principled and honorable person. (Tr. 84-90) 
Dr. P. met Applicant when he was a doctoral student and Applicant was a post -
doctoral research associate. They were roommates.  He describes Applicant  as a selfless  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
   
    
   
  
   
 
 
   
 
    
   
    
      
   
 
   
    
    
     
   
 
 
    
 
     
 
  
 
  
    
  
  
  
    
      
  
    
 
   
  
 
and caring individual who goes out of his way to help others. He was always willing to 
help anyone work through challenging and work-related tasks. He is passionate about his 
work and remarkably diligent. He would be at the office at 7 am and would not return 
home until 7 pm at the earliest. His dedication and his natural talent for mathematics and 
physics makes him an excellent researcher. He has had several internationally-renowned 
contributions to scientific literature. He is one of very few people he knows who is truly 
genuine with good character, integrity and a moral compass. (AE L) 
Dr. D.S. was Applicant’s psychiatrist during the time he was pursuing his doctorate. 
He was initially treated for A DHD. Over time, Applicant became open to talking about 
himself. He has worked to make himself a more confident person. His integrity towards 
himself and others was beyond reproach. He spoke with Dr. D.S. about his episode of 
drug use and has expressed his regret about his actions. Dr. D.S. states that Applicant’s 
exceptional mind and work ethic will make him an asset to any company lucky enough to 
have him. (AE N) 
Several other supervisors of Applicant wrote highly favorable reference letters on 
his behalf. To sum them up, he is an excellent scholar, employee and co-worker. (AE O) 
Applicant’s transcripts reveal he was an outstanding student . (AE I). In July 2017, he 
received an exceptional service award for his superior performance during his time 
working for the government. (AE J) 
Policies  
It is well established that no one has a right to a security clearance. As the 
Supreme Court held, “the clearly consistent standard indicates that security 
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy 
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988). 
The adjudicative guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all av ailable, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 
2(b) requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for access to 
classified information will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this 
decision, I have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on 
the evidence contained in the record. Likewise, I have avoided drawing inferences 
grounded on mere speculation or conjecture. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
    
   
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
 
   
 
 
    
 
   
  
   
  
  
 
     
 
 
   
 
 
 
      
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel, and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable security decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
that an applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
DOD and Federal Government Policy on  Marijuana Use  
On October 25, 2014, the Director for National Intelligence issued a memorandum 
titled, “Adherence to Federal Laws Prohibiting Marijuana Use” addressing concerns 
raised by the decriminalization of marijuana use in several states and the District of 
Columbia. The memorandum states that changes to state and local laws do not alter the 
existing National Security Adjudicative Guidelines. “An individual’s disregard for federal 
law pertaining to the use, sale, or manufacture of marijuana remains adjudicatively 
relevant in national security determinations.” 
On May 26, 2015, the Director of the United States Office of Personnel 
Management (OPM) issued a memorandum titled, “Federal Laws and Policies Prohibiting 
Marijuana Use.” The Director of OPM acknowledged that several jurisdictions have 
decriminalized the use of marijuana, allowing the use of marijuana for medicinal purposes 
and/or for limited recreational use but states that Federal law on marijuana remains 
unchanged. Marijuana is categorized as a controlled substance under Schedule I of the 
Controlled Substances Act. Thus, knowing or intentional marijuana possession is 
federally illegal, even if the individual has no intent to manufacture, distribute, or dispense 
marijuana. 
On December 21, 2021, the Director of National Intelligence signed the 
memorandum, Security Executive Agent Clarifying Guidance Concerning Marijuana for 
Agencies Conducting Adjudications of Persons Proposed for Eligibility for Access to 
Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position. It emphasizes that federal 
law remains unchanged with respect to the illegal use, possession, production, and 
distribution of marijuana. Individuals who hold a clearance or occupy a sensitive position 
are prohibited by law from using controlled substances. Disregard of federal law 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
    
  
  
  
  
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
pertaining to marijuana (including prior recreational  marijuana use) remains relevant,  but  
not  determinative, to adjudications  of  eligibility. Agencies are required to use the “whole-
person concept” stated under SEAD 4, to determine whether the applicant’s  behavior  
raises a security concern that has not been mitigated.  
Analysis  
Guideline H: Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse   
AG ¶ 24 expresses the security concern for drug involvement: 
The illegal use of controlled substances . . . can raise questions about an 
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. 
I have considered the disqualifying conditions for drug involvement and substance 
misuse under AG ¶ 25 and the following are potentially applicable: 
AG ¶  25(a) any substance misuse;  a
 nd  
AG ¶  25(c)  illegal  pos session of a controlled substance, including  
cultivation, processing, manufacture,  purchase, sale, or distribution; or  
possession of drug paraphernalia.  
The record evidence shows  Applicant  used marijuana at various times from  about  
October 2005 until approximately  April 2022 .  His  use was more frequent as  a college  
undergraduate. His later use of marijuana occurred sporadically and appeared t o  be more  
social.  He used Delta  8-THC edibles with varying frequency  from September 2021 to  
January  2023.  He also mailed Delta 8 –  THC edibles to his girlfriend while she was living  
overseas.  His  most recent use of  marijuana occurred when he was  working on his  post-
doctoral studies.  He was residing in a state where the  use of  marijuana is legal  but  he 
was  aware  that the use and possession of  marijuana remained illegal under federal law.  
He  also purchased and used  psilocybin-laced chocolate  from November 2021 to January   
2023.  He purchased the  Delta-8 THC edibles  and the ps ilocybin-laced chocolate from a  
state dispensary. He admits they remained illegal under  federal law. He used Adderall  
without a proper prescription while in college between 2009 to 2011,  and later  provided  
his  prescription drug  Adderall to another person.  AG ¶ 25(a)  and AG ¶ 25(f)  apply to  
Applicant’s case.  
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
    
   
  
 
   
   
     
 
 
 
 
The Government’s substantial evidence and Applicant’s admissions raise security 
concerns under Guideline H. The burden shifted to Applicant to produce evidence to 
rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the security concerns. (Directive ¶ E3.1.15) An 
applicant has the burden of proving a mitigating condition, and the burden of disproving 
it never shifts to the Government. (See ISCR Case No. 02-31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sept. 22, 
2005)) 
The guideline also includes examples of conditions that could mitigate security 
concerns arising from drug involvement and substance misuse . The following mitigating 
conditions under AG ¶ 26 potentially apply: 
AG ¶ 26(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or  
hap
pened under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or does not  
cast doubt  on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  
judgment; and  
AG ¶ 26( b)  the  individual acknowledges his  or her drug involvement and  
substance misuse,  provides evidence on actions taken to overcome this  
problem, and has established a p  attern of abstinence,  including, but  not  
limited to:  (1) Disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts;  (2)  
changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were used; and (3)  
providing a signed statement  of intent to abstain from  all drug involvement  
and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future involvement or  
misuse is  grounds for revocation of national security eligibility.   
AG ¶ 26(a)  applies.  Applicant’s last  use of  an illegal drug occurred over two years  
ago.  He was not a habitual user of  marijuana, Delta 8 THC edibles,  or  the psilocybin-
laced chocolate.  While the shipment of  the  Delta 8 THC edibles  overseas to his girlfriend  
was concerning,  he  stopped sending them to her over two years  ago.  His more recent  
purchases  of  marijuana and Delta 8 THC edibles  were from a legal state dispensary  
where he resided. He  was unsure whether  the Delta 8 THC edibles w ere legal  under  
federal law. He asked an em ployee at the dispensary  about it  and was told they were  
legal  because the concentration of Delta 9  THC was  below  the legal limit . His  use of  
Adderall in college happened so long ago  and he was legally prescribed Adderall shortly  
thereafter.  He used it to concentrate on his studies.  He  admits  providing  his prescribed  
Adderall to his roommate from October  2021 to November 2022. It was  for  the purpose  
of helping him study.  Applicant was  truthful  about his  past illegal drug use and was very  
remorseful. He  intends to refrain from all illegal  drug use and substance abuse in the  
future.  His recent illegal drug use occurred  when he was in academia and was on a 
sporadic and social basis. The references  provided by  his  friends and colleague  support  
the premise that his past behavior  does not cast  doubt on his current reliability,  
trustworthiness, or  good judgment.    
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
  
 
 
 
   
 
   
    
    
    
 
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
 
      
     
  
  
     
  
     
AG 26(b) applies. Applicant has not used illegal drugs in over two years. He no 
longer associates with his drug- using associates and contacts. His wife stopped using 
illegal drugs and is now in counseling to deal with her issues with PTSD and depression. 
He provided a statement of intent to abstain from illegal drug involvement and substance 
misuse. He is aware that any future illegal drug use may result in the revocation of his 
security clearance. 
Overall, I found Applicant’s testimony to be sincere. He has mitigated the security 
concerns raised under Guideline H, Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse. I found the 
cross-allegations under Personal Conduct for Applicant. They were more appropriately 
addressed under Guideline H. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a public trust position by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration of 
the guidelines and the whole- person concept. I considered the potentially disqualifying 
and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances surrounding this case. 
I have incorporated my comments under Guideline H and the AG ¶ 2(d) factors in this 
whole-person analysis. 
I considered that Applicant ’s outstanding employment record and academic 
credentials. I considered he provided full disclosure about his illegal drug use on his 
security clearance applications in March 2023, September 2019, and May 2015, during 
his background investigation interview , and in response to interrogatories. I considered 
he stopped using illegal substances more than two years ago. His indicates that he fully 
understands the responsibilities of working for the government in a position that requires 
a security clearance. He is now married and is now focused on his career and his family. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
     
 
 
      
    
 
    
 
              
 
     
 
                
 
    
   
 
   
   
  
                                                
 
  
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
After weighing the disqualifying and mitigating conditions under Guideline H and 
evaluating all the evidence in the context of the whole person, I conclude Applicant 
mitigated the security concerns raised by his conduct under Guideline H. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline H:  
  FOR APPL ICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a  –  1.f:   For Applicant 
Paragraph 2, Guideline E:  FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraph 2.a:  For Applicant 
Paragraph 3, Guideline B:   Withdrawn 
Conclusion  
In l
ight of all of the circumstances presented, it is clearly consistent with the 
interests of national security to grant Applicant’s eligibility for access to classified 
information. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Erin C. Hogan 
Administrative Judge 
12 