 
 
 
 
                                                               
                         
          
           
             
          
            
 
    
  
       
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
         
   
 
 
       
      
        
     
    
      
  
 
         
             
           
            
    
 
      
       
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 23-02888 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Carroll J. Connelley, Esq., Department Counsel, 
For Applicant: Pro se 
03/19/2025 
Decision  
GARCIA, Candace Le’i, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to mitigate the drug involvement and substance misuse security 
concern. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
On December 28, 2023, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline H (drug 
involvement and substance misuse). The action was taken under Executive Order (Exec. 
Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as 
amended; D OD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance 
Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative 
guidelines (AG) implemented by DOD on June 8, 2017. 
Applicant submitted a response to the SOR (Answer) on February 4, 2024, and he 
requested a hearing before an administrative judge. The case was assigned to me on 
June 6, 2024. The Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a notice on 
June 26, 2024, scheduling the matter for a video conference hearing on August 27, 2024. 
I convened the hearing as scheduled. 
At the hearing, I admitted in evidence without objection Government Exhibits (GE) 
1 and 2. Applicant testified, did not call any witnesses, and submitted documentation I 
1 
 
 
 
 
      
            
    
   
           
   
 
 
          
         
  
 
          
          
     
       
           
            
       
        
  
 
         
       
          
         
 
 
        
         
          
        
           
    
 
         
              
        
         
        
        
           
          
             
   
 
marked as Applicant Exhibits (AE) A -B and admitted in evidence without objection . 
Applicant did not request for the record to be kept open for additional documentation and 
the record closed. I reopened the record for the limited purpose of admitting in evidence, 
without objection, additional documentation submitted by Applicant on February 13, 2025, 
that I marked and admitted as AE C . DOHA received the hearing transcript (Tr.) on 
September 6, 2024. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant admitted the sole SOR allegation in h is Answer. He is 42 years old , 
married, and he has three children, ages 12, 10, and 8. He has owned his home in state 
A since September 2012. (Tr. 26; GE 1) 
Applicant graduated from high school in 2001. He attended community college 
from 2017 to 2018 but did not earn a degree. He also attended a trade school. He served 
honorably in the U.S. military from June 2001 until he was discharged in June 2005, and 
he deployed to Iraq twice. He worked as a federal correctional officer f rom September 
2006 to April 2007 , and he was granted a security clearance by that U.S. Government 
agency. He was a stay-at-home father from July 2010 until August 2023. He has since 
worked as machinist for his employer, a DOD contractor . As of the date of the hearing, 
he did not hold a DOD security clearance but is sponsored for one by his employer. (Tr. 
5-9, 22-31; GE 1-2) 
Applicant used marijuana with varying frequency, at times daily, from 
approximately September 2013 until February 2025, including after he submitted a 
security clearance application (SCA) on June 9, 2023. He disclosed his marijuana use on 
his SCA and he discussed it in his October 2023 response to interrogatories. (SOR ¶ 1.a; 
Tr. 15-16, 22-61; GE 1-2) 
When Applicant was discharged from the military in 2005, he received a disability 
rating from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) of 50% for Post-Traumatic 
Stress Disorder (PTSD) “and a couple of small ratings for . . . shoulder, back issues . . . 
.” (Tr. 31-32) He appealed that rating in 2008, was sent to a neurologist, and he received 
a combined rating of 100 percent that is “70 percent [traumatic brain injury] ( TBI). 50 
percent PTSD, and I believe 50 percent migraines, and a couple of others.” (Tr. 32) 
Between 2005 and 2013, Applicant sought treatment from the VA but he did not 
find the various narcotics prescribed to him to be effective. He talked to a few counselors 
but did not find them helpful because he did feel comfortable discussing his issues with 
them. In 2013, he obtained a prescription for medical marijuana. He has since abided by 
state A law , which permits recreational marijuana use , and h e has used the medical 
marijuana that he has purchased from state A dispensaries to manage his PTSD, anxiety, 
depression, pain from injuries he sustained in combat, to include his TBI. He primarily 
used marijuana around bedtime, to help him relax and sleep. He stated he has never 
used marijuana before or during work. He stated he has not abused marijuana and he 
has never received a drug-related diagnosis. (Tr. 22-24, 33-45, 48-49, 52-53) 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            
      
    
        
   
 
           
            
         
          
          
   
 
 
         
      
            
         
        
         
   
 
 
 
 
      
        
      
Applicant stated  that  his employer drug  tested  him  in  May 2023,  as  part of  the  pre-
employment  process,  and  although  he  believed  he  tested  positive  for marijuana  he  was  
never informed  of such. He  provided  his employer with  a  copy of his medical marijuana  
card. He has not since  been  drug  tested  by his employer, he  does not believe  his  
employer has  a  drug  testing  policy, but he  is aware  that  his employer prohibits the  use  of  
illegal drugs. He stated  that the  security clearance  process was the  first time  he  was  
informed  that marijuana  is a  Schedule I drug,  it remains  federally illegal,  any future  use  
might  affect  his  security clearance  eligibility, and  there were  no  exceptions for medical  
marijuana use.  (Tr. 15-16, 22-24, 33-49, 51-52;  GE 1-2)  
Applicant referenced the U.S. Department of Justice, Office of the Deputy Attorney 
General’s August 29, 2013 Memorandum titled, “Guidance Regarding Marijuana 
Enforcement,” as well as the Office of the Attorney General’s January 4, 2018 
Memorandum titled, “Marijuana Enforcement.” He asked for both memoranda to be 
applied to his usage of marijuana. (Tr. 15-17, 22-24, 47-48; AE A-B) 
Although Applicant stated in his SCA and response to interrogator ies that he 
intended to continue to use marijuana, he testified that he would consider abstaining if it 
meant he could obtain his clearance. (Tr. 44-45, 49 -50, 56 -61; GE 1 -2) He stated he 
intended to work with his private doctors and VA care providers to find alternative means 
to manage his PTSD, anxiety, depression, and pain. (Tr. 53-56) On February 13, 2025, 
he provided a statement of intent to discontinue his use of marijuana. He stated: 
I’m  writing  to  you  today to  inform  you  of my commitment to  discontinue  the  
use  marijuana. I have  limited  my use  strictly to  weekends for the  past couple  
of months and  I intend  to  discontinue  use  entirely.  (emphasis added)  I find  
substantial  satisfaction  in  my  career and  I  wish  to  pursue  advancement  
that’s limited  by my current situation. It  is an  absolute  honor to  continue  to  
serve my country. I am  currently in consideration  for a  position  in research  
and  development,  I will  do  whatever it takes to  ensure that I don’t jeopardize  
my future. (AE C)  
Applicant received a Combat Action Ribbon for his deployments and he also 
received a number of awards, to include a Presidential Unit Citation. (Tr. 31 -32) His 
spouse, who was also his caregiver through the VA Caregiver Program, attested to 
Applicant’s use of medical marijuana to manage his PTSD, TBI, and other physical 
injuries sustained during his military service. She stated she monitors his daily use of 
marijuana, and he only uses it after returning home from work. She further stated that his 
use of marijuana has not negatively affected his work performance. (Tr. 56; GE 2) 
Policies 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
3 
 
 
 
 
         
   
 
          
     
         
          
     
       
         
         
     
  
 
        
        
       
      
         
 
          
        
    
              
      
       
           
        
        
            
       
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number o f variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 
2(b) requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national 
security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of “compromise of classified information. Section 7 of E xec. Or. 
10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the national interest and shall 
in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” See also 
Exec. Or. 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access t o classified or 
sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline H: Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse  
The security concern for drug involvement and substance misuse is set out in AG 
¶ 24: 
The  illegal use  of controlled  substances,  to  include  the  misuse  of  
prescription  and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances 
that  cause  physical or mental  impairment  or are  used  in a  manner  
inconsistent with  their  intended  purpose  can  raise  questions  about an  
individual's reliability and  trustworthiness, both  because  such  behavior may  
lead  to  physical or psychological impairment and  because  it raises  
questions about a person’s ability or  willingness to comply with laws, rules,  
4 
 
 
 
 
 
         
   
 
 
      
   
 
 
      
       
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
        
    
   
 
 
      
     
        
          
    
   
   
      
      
    
         
and  regulations.  Controlled  substance  means  any  “controlled  substance”  as  
defined  in 21  U.S.C. 802. Substance  misuse  is the  generic term  adopted  in  
this guideline  to  describe any of the behaviors listed above.  
The guideline notes the following applicable conditions that could raise security 
concerns under AG ¶ 25: 
(a)  any substance  m isuse  . . . ; and  
(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation, 
processing, manufacture, purchase, sale, or distribution; or p ossession of 
drug paraphernalia. 
Applicant used marijuana with varying frequency , at times daily, f rom 
approximately 2013 through February 2025. AG ¶¶ 25(a) and 25(c) apply. 
AG ¶ 26 provides the following potentially relevant mitigating conditions: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or happened  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur or does  not cast  doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;  
(b) the  individual acknowledges his or her drug  involvement and  substance  
misuse,  provides evidence  of actions taken  to  overcome  this problem, and  
has established  a pattern of abstinence, including, but not limited  to:  . . .  
(1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts;   
(2) changing  or avoiding  the  environment  where drugs  were  used; 
and  
(3) providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug 
involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future 
involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation of national security 
eligibility. 
In addition, in October 2014, noting the recent decriminalization of marijuana use 
in several states and the District of Columbia, the Director of National Intelligence issued 
a memorandum titled, “Adherence to Federal Laws Prohibiting Marijuana Use,” reminding 
agency heads that such changes to state marijuana laws do not alter the existing National 
Security Adjudicative Guidelines and asserting that an individual’s disregard of federal 
marijuana law remains adjudicatively relevant in national security determinations. 
Subsequently in December 2021, however, particularly in response to the 
increasing number of state and local governments legalizing or decriminalizing marijuana 
use, the Director of National Intelligence issued “Clarifying Guidance Concerning 
Marijuana for Agencies Conducting Adjudications of Persons Proposed for Eligibility for 
Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position ,” (Clarifying 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
      
          
         
        
     
        
       
        
          
         
 
 
          
             
          
        
       
         
 
 
      
        
       
       
           
          
            
    
          
      
 
 
 
 
         
      
Guidance)  which  instructs that “prior recreational marijuana  use  by  an  individual may be  
relevant  to  adjudications but not   determinative,” and  reiterates  the  requirement  that  
agencies utilize  the  Whole-Person  Concept “to  carefully weigh  a  number of variables in  
an individual’s life  to  determine  whether that individual’s behavior raises a  security  
concern,  if at  all, and  whether that concern has been  mitigated  such  that the  individual  
may now receive a  favorable adjudicative determination.”     
Applicants cannot be expected to be constitutional law experts or versed in the 
concept of Federal supremacy. The ambiguity between state and federal drug laws and 
the ensuing confusion was addressed by the Clarifying Guidance. Relevant to the topic 
of notice, the Clarifying Guidance encourages employers “to advise prospective national 
security workforce employees that they should refrain from any future marijuana use upon 
initiation of the national security vetting process, which commences once the individual 
signs the certification contained in the [SCA].” Implicit in this guidance is the recognition 
that the SCA itself no longer puts applicants on notice and that employers should 
affirmatively be providing notice to prospective employees. The Clarifying Guidance to 
employers, however, cannot be presumed to have been followed. See ISCR Case No. 
23-00476 (App. Bd. May 1, 2024) 
Here, Applicant self -reported information about h is marijuana use on h is SCA, 
and he discussed it during his response to interrogatories. He maintained he did not truly 
understand that marijuana, which is federally illegal, would impact his security clearance 
eligibility and provided no exceptions for medical marijuana use until he underwent the 
security clearance process. In February 2025, he signed a statement of intent to abstain 
from marijuana and illegal drug use in the future. AG ¶¶ 26(b)(1), 26(b)(2), and 26(b)(3) 
apply. 
However, Applicant has used marijuana since approximately 2013. Although he 
provided a statement of intent in February 2025, he noted therein that he continued to 
use marijuana after his security clearance hearing in August 2024 . He had not yet 
discontinued use after he understood that marijuana was federally illegal and 
incompatible with holding a security clearance. He has not yet established a pattern of 
abstinence at this time. His marijuana use did not happen so long ago, was not so 
infrequent, and did not happen under such circumstances that are unlikely to rec ur. His 
drug involvement continues to cast doubt on his current reliability, trustworthiness, and 
judgment. More time is necessary to establish his future abstinence from marijuana use. 
AG ¶ 26(a) does not apply and AG ¶ 26(b) does not fully apply. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the  whole-person  concept,  the  administrative judge  must  evaluate  an  
applicant’s eligibility for a  security clearance  by considering  the  totality of the  applicant’s  
conduct and  all  relevant circumstances.  The  administrative  judge  should  consider the  
nine  adjudicative  process factors listed at AG  ¶  2(d):  
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
       
       
         
       
      
            
       
       
    
 
 
        
    
 
     
 
  
 
 
 
             
       
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  
and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct;  
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation  or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. I considered the potentially 
disqualifying an d mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances 
surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under Guideline H in my whole-
person analysis. I have considered information about Applicant’s whole person, to include 
his combat service. Overall, the r ecord evidence leaves me with questions and doubts 
about Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. I conclude Applicant 
did not mitigate the drug involvement and substance misuse security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  H:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  1.a: Against Applicant 
Conclusion 
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant’s eligibility for a security 
clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Candace Le’i Garcia 
Administrative Judge 
7 