 
 
 
 
                                                              
                             
          
           
             
 
 
     
         
      
    
   
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
      
      
        
   
       
   
 
 
       
  
           
        
      
     
     
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 23-02820 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Andre M. Gregorian, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
02/13/2025 
Decision 
MURPHY, Braden M., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant has a history of drug involvement and criminal conduct, including illegal 
drug use, and drug -related and other criminal offenses. These security concerns are 
alleged under Guideline H (Drug Involvement) and alleged or cross -alleged under 
Guidelines E (Personal Conduct) and J (Criminal Conduct). Applicant did not provide 
sufficient evidence to mitigate any of the alleged security concerns. Applicant’s eligibility 
for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application ( SCA) on December 14, 
2022, in connection with his employment in the defense industry. On February 20, 2024, 
the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant 
detailing security concerns under Guidelines H, E, and J. The DOD issued the SOR 
under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry (February 20, 19 60), as amended; DOD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial 
Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended 
1 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
     
         
          
         
 
 
      
         
 
 
          
     
        
           
        
         
   
 
 
        
            
         
        
   
 
     
        
        
        
         
         
 
 
     
        
          
       
            
 
 
 
 
(Directive); and Security Executive Agent Directive (SEAD) 4, National Security 
Adjudicative Guidelines (AG), effective June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR on March 18, 2024, and requested a hearing before 
an administrative judge from the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) . The 
case was assigned to me on July 23, 2024 . On July 25, 2024, DOHA issued a notice 
scheduling the hearing for August 12, 2024, via video-teleconference through an online 
platform. 
The hearing convened as scheduled. Department Counsel offered Government’s 
Exhibits (GE) 1 through 4, and Applicant offered Applicant’s Exhibits (AE) A through I. 
All exhibits were admitted without objection. Applicant and two witnesses also testified. 
At the end of the hearing, I held the record open to provide Applicant the 
opportunity to submit additional documents. He timely submitted five documents, which 
are marked as AE J through N and admitted without objection. These include: an offer 
letter from Company N in 2020 (AE J); Applicant’s W-2 tax statement for 2020 (AE K); a 
pay stub from November -December 2021 (AE L) a recommendation letter (AE M); and 
documentation of security trainings in 2022 and 2023 (AE N). The record closed on 
August 27, 2024. DOHA received the hearing transcript (Tr.) on September 12, 2024. 
Findings of Fact   
Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.g under Guideline H. He admitted SOR ¶ 2 .b 
and 2.c under Guideline E. He admitted the cross -allegation at SOR ¶ 3.a (under 
Guideline J) but denied the cross -allegation at SOR ¶ 2.a (under Guideline E). He also 
provided narrative statements addressing the allegations. His admissions are 
incorporated into the findings of fact. Additional findings follow. 
Applicant is a 34-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has never 
married. He has two children, now ages 8 and 5. He earned an undergraduate degree 
in 2015 and a master’s degree in 2020. He has been employed as a consultant for a 
defense contractor since February 2022, after many years in the restaurant industry. He 
has never held a clearance before but remains sponsored for a clearance. He earns an 
annual salary of $108,000 after starting at $82,000. (GE 1; AE E, AE F; AE K; Tr. 13-14; 
60-61, 91-93; HE IV) 
During his testimony, Applicant disclosed another position, with company N, a 
healthcare facility specializing in traumatic brain injury (TBI). He was hired as a 
residential supervisor on a $42,000 annual salary . He worked there from October 2020 
to November 2021. He resigned because he was disgruntled over being overworked. 
He said he did not list the job on his SCA inadvertently. (Tr. 62-63, 65-72, 94-95; AE J, 
AE L) 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
        
         
              
         
        
        
      
        
              
          
  
 
           
        
  
  
       
           
            
         
       
    
 
        
        
       
        
       
 
        
       
          
       
            
             
            
          
          
         
            
       
         
     
           
Drug  use  and Drug-related offenses:  
Applicant used marijuana daily in college with friends, from August 2009 to 2015. 
He would also contribute money towards weekly group purchases of the drug . His use 
declined from daily to on weekends from 2015 to 2019, then about once a month up to 
October 2021. ( Answer; GE 2 at 8 ; Tr. 61-65) Applicant disclosed the full timeframe of 
his marijuana use on his interrogatory response, and said he used it weekly. (GE 2 at 2) 
(SOR ¶ 1.a) He clarified during his testimony that he did not use drugs while he was on 
probation, but he did relapse afterwards. (Tr. 63-65) He also clarified that he did not use 
marijuana while working for Company N (Oct. 2020-Nov. 2021) but resumed briefly after 
leaving the company, though he said he stopped using again when applying for his 
current job, since he was expecting to take a drug test. (Tr. 94 -100) (This suggests he 
used until November 2021, not October 2021). 
Applicant said he curbed his marijuana use after the birth of his children. He also 
stopped because of his job at Company N, since he had “people’s livelihoods in my 
hands [and] there was no room for me to be high at any point.” (Tr. 61-63) 
Applicant also has several drug -related criminal offenses and arrests. He was 
arrested for marijuana possession twice in college (2011 and 2012) (SOR ¶¶ 1.b, 1.c) 
(Answer; GE 2 at 6 -7; GE 4 at 19 -22) He was arrested for possession of a controlled 
substance in December 2016, marijuana possession in July 201 7, and possession of 
marijuana and marijuana paraphernalia in March 2018. (SOR ¶¶ 1.e, 1.f, 1.g) (Answer; 
GE 2 at 6-7, 11; GE 3; GE 4 at 11-12, 23, 25, 29-31) 
Applicant said the controlled substance at issue for the December 2016 arrest 
was “kratom,” an herbal, for which he paid a fine. ( Tr. 79-80) Applicant recalled no 
specifics about the July 2017 or March 2018 marijuana -related charges, beyond 
perhaps paying a fine, but he acknowledged that, despite earning his degree by that 
point and trying to do better, he was still making bad decisions. (Tr. 80-83, 105-106) 
In November 2015, Applicant was arrested and charged with felony possession 
of marijuana, felony possession of marijuana with intent to sell (PWIS), possession of 
marijuana, and having an open container of alcohol in a motor vehicle. (SOR ¶ 1.d) (GE 
3 at 7-8; GE 4 at 13-18) He explained in his January 2023 background interview that he 
had been smoking marijuana at a party with friends. He left the party and drove to a 
fast-food restaurant and fell asleep in the drive -through lane. He was awakened by 
police, who searched his car and found bags of marijuana, a scale, a pipe, and an open 
plastic cup full of liquor. In his testimony, he at first told a different story, and said that 
he and a passenger were pulled over while driving and they were both charged , though 
he later affirmed the first version . ( Compare Tr. 75 -76 with GE 2 at 7; Tr. 106 ) He 
denied that he had been dealing drugs and said he had the scale to avoid being 
cheated. (Tr. 106 -107) Either way, in July 2016, he was found guilty on the three 
misdemeanor counts (the felony marijuana possession charge was reduced to a 
misdemeanor). The felony PWIS charge was dismissed. He paid about $300 in fees 
and fines and was sentenced to 45 days in jail and 12 months of probation, though he 
3 
 
 
 
 
       
        
 
 
 
         
           
          
           
       
    
    
 
        
            
         
        
            
              
            
           
       
          
       
   
 
        
       
           
                
      
 
    
          
      
        
          
       
         
 
 
      
             
   
said he did not serve any jail time. He said he completed probation early and said he 
was not on probation for these charges at the time of his next arrest (SOR ¶ 1.f), in 
December 2016. (GE 7 at 2; Tr. 75-79, 108-109) 
Other offenses:  
In 2011, while he was in college, Applicant was on campus with several friends, 
when they found an identification card belonging to a fellow student whom they knew. 
Rather than turn it in, they used it to purchase items on campus. Likely based on the 
amount charged on the card by the group as a whole , Applicant was charged with 
felony obtaining property under false pretenses and with financial card fraud. He was 
arrested and held in custody for several hours, but the charges were dropped in court. 
(SOR ¶ 2.b) (Answer; GE 2 at 6; GE 3; GE 4 at 32-43; Tr. 73-75, 102-104, 120-123) 
In June 2021, Applicant was charged with misdemeanor fleeing and eluding 
arrest, failing to heed a siren red light, reckless driving to endanger, and speeding. 
(SOR ¶ 2.c) He explained that he had taken the overnight “red eye” flight from Las 
Vegas back to his home state after a vacation. His plane landed early in the morning, 
and he worked in another city in the state. He was late for work so he was speeding. A 
police car attempted to pull him over but he sped up and exited the freeway. He pulled 
his vehicle into the back parking lot of a hotel and waited 15 minutes before resuming 
his journey. He was then pulled over after leaving the parking lot by the police car who 
was waiting for him. He was sober and had no drugs or alcohol in the car, which was 
searched at his request. He was cited and released with a court date. He said he 
received over $1,000 in court costs and fines and his license was suspended. (Answer; 
GE 2 at 11-12; GE 4 at 1-7; Tr. 83-86, 109-113) 
Since his June 2021 incident , Applicant has not had anything more than a single 
speeding ticket. He said he has not used marijuana since about October (or perhaps 
November) 2021. He stopped using at that point because he was applying for his 
current position and he wanted to be clean in case he had to take a drug test. (Tr. 86, 
93-100, 115) He has not used any drug beyond marijuana. (Tr. 115 
Applicant did not list any drug use or any drug offenses, felony offenses, or any 
offenses or illegal drug use in the previous seven years on his December 2022 SCA in 
answer to various questions about his police record and illegal use of drugs or drug 
activity on his SCA . (GE 1 at 26 -27) When asked about these various omissions, he 
said he thought that if he disclosed them on his SCA he would be automatically denied 
a clearance. (Tr. 123-129) However, he voluntarily discussed his drug history and much 
of his criminal record in his January 2023 background interview, a month later. (GE 2 at 
6-8; Tr. 130-132) 
Applicant did not disclose his June 2021 misdemeanor charges on his December 
2022 SCA or in his January 2023 background interview. GE 1, GE 2 at 6 -8) He also did 
not disclose it during his second interview, in July 2023, until he was confronted about it, 
4 
 
 
 
 
          
  
 
          
           
     
    
  
 
         
               
          
         
        
         
      
             
         
   
 
       
       
       
           
      
      
 
 
  
 
         
         
        
      
           
          
     
 
 
      
        
     
and after discussing his other charges and offenses and saying that he had no 
additional adverse encounters with law enforcement to report. (GE 2 at 11) 
There are no allegations of falsification in the SOR. Applicant also has a better 
understanding of the importance of full disclosure to the Government during the 
clearance application process and about security procedures. (Tr. 132 -136) After the 
hearing, he documented certificates for numerous required security trainings he 
completed in 2022 and 2023. (AE N) 
In addition to the offenses above, Applicant disclosed during his testimony that 
he was also arrested for a breaking and entering offense in July 2009 , when he was 16 
years old. He was charged as a juvenile and placed on probation. He was on probation 
when he started college, in 2011, at age 17. He also acknowledged that his initial high -
school and college -era drug use (2009 -2011) included marijuana use while he was on 
probation for this offense. It is not clear that he was still on probation when he was 
charged with marijuana possession in October 2011. (SOR ¶ 1.a) (Tr. 116 -119) Th is 
juvenile offense is not alleged in the SOR and will not be considered as disqualifying 
conduct. Nor is it ether alleged or established that he was required to disclose this 
juvenile charge on his SCA. 
Applicant acknowledged that his actions showed a lack of judgment, poor 
decisions, recklessness, and a disregard for authority. He has matured and learned 
from his mistakes. He has advanced in his career and worked to earn an education. He 
has no interest in repeating his past actions and he is proud to have broken away from 
his old bad habits. He has also disassociated from his past drug -using associates. He 
provided a signed statement of intent not to use illegal drugs in the future. (Tr. 57-60, 
87-91, 100-102, 137, 140-144; AE I) 
Two  character witnesses testified  for Applicant.  Ms. Fis  a  former Army  officer
with  a  clearance, who  has worked  for Applicant’s employer since  late  2022. She  works  
closely with  Applicant every day, though  they interact  remotely. She  said he  is a  team  
player and  hard worker who  is also personally compassionate. She   has “absolutely no   
reason  to  distrust” him. (Tr. 33-42)  
 
Ms. H is the mother of Applicant’s two children, who live with her . They have 
known each other for n ine years but do not cohabitate and are no longer together . She 
considers him to be trustworthy, hardworking, intelligent, dependable , and a good role 
model for their children . She credits his e ducation and career advancement . She said 
he is more mature, dependable, and trustworthy since the children were born. She is 
aware of his criminal record and drug history. She said he knows h is actions affect the 
children. He supports the family but is not under a court order to pay child support. (Tr. 
44-55) 
Applicant also provided recommendation letters from several references at work. 
He is highly regarded and a valued, hard -working team member. He has a positive and 
respectful attitude. He is credited with dependability, honesty, reliability, and 
5 
 
 
 
 
        
     
 
  
         
       
           
 
 
       
        
       
          
   
 
          
      
         
          
        
       
         
 
 
       
    
        
         
           
 
 
        
       
       
          
     
 
          
          
     
            
     
       
         
professionalism, and he has good communication and conflict resolution skills and is a 
good listener. (AE A – AE D; AE G, AE H; AE M) 
Policies  
It is well established that no one has a right to a security clearance. As the 
Supreme Court has held, “the clearly consistent standard indicates that security 
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of Navy v. 
Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988). 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative g uidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are use d in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial , and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 
2(a), the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of several variables kno wn as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and un favorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I 
have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical , and based on the 
evidence contained in the record. Likewise, I have not drawn inferences grounded on 
mere speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
6 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
       
    
 
 
      
   
 
 
         
         
      
          
         
 
 
      
 
 
     
      
        
extrapolation of potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Analysis  
Guideline H: Drug Involvement  
AG ¶ 24 details the security concern for drug involvement: 
The  illegal use  of controlled  substances,  to  include  the  misuse  of  
prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances  that can  cause  
physical or mental impairment or are used  in a  manner inconsistent with  
their  intended  use  can  raise  questions about  an  individual’s reliability and  
trustworthiness, both  because  such  behavior may lead  to  physical or  
psychological impairment and  because  it raises questions about a  
person’s ability or willingness to  comply with  laws, rules, and  regulations.  
Controlled  substance  means any “controlled   substance” as defined  in 21  
U.S.C 802. Substance misuse  is the  generic term adopted  in  this guideline  
to describe any of the  behaviors listed  above.  
I have considered the disqualifying conditions for drug involvement under AG ¶ 
25 and the following are potentially applicable: 
(a)  any substance  m isuse  (see above  definition); and  
(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation, 
processing, manufacture, purchase, sale, or distribution; or possession of 
drug paraphernalia. 
Applicant has a history of drug-related arrests, citations, and offenses between 
2011 and 2018, both during and for a period after college. He also used marijuana 
during this period (2009-2021) as much as daily in college, then weekly, then less often, 
then for a period not at all, before brief resumption in late 2021, before beginning his 
current job. The Guideline H allegations (SOR ¶¶ 1.a -1.g) are established and AG ¶¶ 
25(a) and 25(c) both apply. 
The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 26 are potentially applicable: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or happened  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur or does  not cast  doubt  
on  the  individual’s current reliability, trustwo rthiness, or good  judgment;  
and  
(b) the individual acknowledges his or her drug involvement and 
substance misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this 
problem, and has established a pattern of abstinence, including, but not 
7 
 
 
 
 
  
        
          
     
        
           
       
       
   
 
       
     
         
        
    
     
       
         
      
 
 
    
 
 
           
 
 
 
     
 
  
 
limited  to: (1) disassociation  from  drug-using  associates and  contacts;  (2)  
changing  or avoiding  the  environment where  drugs were  used;  and  (3)  
providing a  signed statement of intent  to  abstain from  all   drug involvement  
and  substance  misuse, acknowledging  that any future involvement is 
grounds for revocation  of national security eligibility.  
Applicant used marijuana before and during college, as well as for some time 
afterwards. He stopped using marijuana while working for company N, a job for which 
he had direct responsibility over the lives, or at least the physical wellbeing, of patients 
at the facility. H owever, he used marijuana again for a brief period in fall 2021, before 
starting his current job as a consultant. H e used marijuana after the birth of his children 
(now eight and five) . Applicant also has a series of drug -related charges and citations. 
Most of them are possession charges though one college-era incident included a felony 
charge of possession with intent to sell. 
Applicant has earned both undergraduate and graduate degrees and has begun 
a professional career as a consultant. He has disassociated himself from drug -using 
associates and contacts and said he does not intend to resume that life. He provided a 
signed statement of intent to abstain from future illegal drug use. While his several drug 
arrests and charges are now several years old, they are not infrequent and are of a 
similar nature . And his drug involvement (as with his most recent criminal conduct, 
discussed below) is as recent as late 2021. The drug offenses are now not particularly 
recent, but the same cannot be said of his overall drug involvement . The mitigating 
conditions at AG ¶¶ 26(a) and 26(b) do not fully apply. 
Guideline J: Criminal Conduct  
AG ¶ 30 details the security concern for criminal conduct: 
Criminal activity  creates doubt about  a  person's judgment,  reliability, and  
trustworthiness. By its  very nature, it calls into  question  a  person's  ability 
or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and  regulations.  
AG ¶ 31 describes conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying. The following disqualifying conditions are potentially applicable: 
(a) a  pattern of minor offenses, any one  of  which  on  its own  would be  
unlikely to  affect  a  national security  eligibility decision,  but which in  
combination  cast doubt on  the  individual's judgment,  reliability,  or 
trustworthiness; and   
(b) evidence (including, but not limited to, a credible allegation, an 
admission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of 
whether the individual was formally charged, prosecuted, or convicted. 
8 
 
 
 
 
            
      
     
 
         
 
 
  
     
       
   
 
 
       
       
                
      
       
        
 
 
     
           
             
             
         
        
    
         
        
  
 
 
    
 
 
   
The sole Guideline J allegation in the SOR (¶ 3.a) is a cross -allegation of all of 
Applicant’s various offenses, whether alleged under Guideline H (SOR ¶¶ 1.b-1.g) or 
Guideline E (SOR ¶¶ 2.b, 2.c). AG ¶¶ 31(a) and 31(b) both apply. 
AG ¶ 32 sets forth the potentially applicable mitigating conditions: 
(a) so  much  time  has elapsed  since  the  criminal behavior  happened, or it  
happened  under such  unusual circumstances, that it  is unlikely to  recur 
and  does not cast doubt on  the  individual's reliability, trustworthiness, or  
good judgment; and   
(d) there is evidence of successful rehabilitation; including, but not limited 
to, the passage of time without recurrence of criminal activity, restitution, 
compliance with the terms of parole or probation, job training or higher 
education, good employment record, or constructive community 
involvement. 
Applicant’s 2011 offense is mitigated by the passage of time. It is the only charge 
of its nature and appears to be an instance of poor decision -making by Applicant (and 
some college friends) who seem to have thought it would be a good idea to use another 
student’s ID or student charge card to buy some items at a convenience store. It was 
not a good idea and they got caught, but it is also the sort of college -era incident that 
was quickly resolved and not repeated. SOR ¶ 2.b (as part of SOR ¶ 3.a here) is found 
for Applicant. 
The remaining offenses are more difficult to mitigate. While Applicant’s drug -
related offenses have a timeframe from 2011 to 2018, his drug use is more recent, as it 
is up to fall 2021 (as discussed above in Guideline H). So, too, are his most recent 
charges and citations, during the early morning incident in June 2021 when he tried to 
outrun and hide from the police. This was an instance of poor judgment, poor impulse 
control, disregard for rules and regulations and disrespect for authority. And it is 
relatively recent. As such, it is difficult to conclude that Applicant has changed his ways 
and learned his lesson. For largely the same reasons as set forth in Guideline H above, 
I am unable to conclude that either AG ¶¶ 32(a) or AG 32(d) fully apply to mitigate the 
criminal conduct security concerns shown. 
Guideline E: Personal Conduct  
AG ¶ 15 details the security concerns for personal conduct: 
Conduct involving  questionable  judgment,  lack of  candor,  dishonesty,  or 
unwillingness to  comply with  rules and  regulations can  raise questions 
about an  individual's  reliability, trustworthiness, and  ability to  protect 
classified or sensitive information.  
I considered the following disqualifying condition under AG ¶ 16: 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
       
      
      
          
        
      
       
  
 
          
  
 
  
      
       
    
    
 
 
        
        
      
 
 
     
    
          
      
      
        
           
(c)  credible  adverse information  in several adjudicative issue  areas  that is  
not sufficient for an  adverse determination  under any other single  
guideline, but which,  when  considered  as a  whole, supports  a  whole-
person  assessment  of questionable  judgment,  untrustworthiness,  
unreliability, lack of candor, unwillingness  to  comply with  rules and  
regulations,  or other characteristics  indicating  that  the  individual may not  
properly safeguard classified or sensitive information.  
In 2011, Applicant was charged with fraudulent use of a fellow student’s 
university ID or charge card and obtaining property under false pretenses. (SOR ¶ 2.b) 
His drug-related charges and offenses, discussed above under Guideline H, are cross -
alleged as a personal conduct security concern. (SOR ¶ 2.a) Finally, there are the 
charges Applicant incurred for fleeing and eluding the police officer, reckless driving to 
endanger, and related traffic offenses in June 2021. (SOR ¶ 2.c) All of these allegations 
and cross-allegations satisfy AG ¶ 16(c), as well as the general security concern under 
AG ¶ 15, given the questionable judgment and unwillingness to comply with rules and 
regulations that are shown by his conduct. 
AG ¶ 17 sets forth the following potentially applicable mitigating conditions under 
Guideline E: 
(c) the  offense  is  so  minor,  or  so  much  time  has  passed,  or  the  
behavior  is  so  infrequent,  or  it  happened  under  such  unique  
circumstances  that  it  is  unlikely  to  recur  and  does  not  cast  doubt  on  the  
individual's  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or  good  judgment; and   
(d) the individual has acknowledged the behavior and obtained counseling 
to change the behavior or taken other positive steps to alleviate the 
stressors, circumstances, or factors that contributed to untrustworthy, 
unreliable, or other inappropriate behavior, and such behavior is unlikely 
to recur. 
SOR ¶ 2.b, the 2011 obtaining property and financial card fraud offense, is 
mitigated due to the passage of time, as detailed under Guideline J, above. The 
remaining offenses, however, are not mitigated, also for the same reasons as set forth 
in the mitigation analysis under Guidelines H and J, above. 
There is also the matter of Applicant’s lack of candor during the security 
clearance process about his drug use and various offenses. Applicant disclosed none of 
his drug use and none of his charges or citations (drug -related or otherwise) on his 
December 2022 SCA. He discussed many of these issues during his first background 
interview, in January 2023. However, it was not until his second interview, in July 2023, 
that he disclosed his most recent offenses and citations, incurred when he tried to 
outrun and hide from the police in June 2021. And he did not disclose that incident until 
10 
 
 
 
 
        
  
 
          
             
          
     
         
          
        
      
        
     
 
 
 
 
         
      
         
    
 
 
      
       
         
       
       
          
         
         
           
      
   
 
 
 
 
he was confronted about it, and after discussing his other charges and offenses and 
saying that he had no additional adverse encounters with law enforcement to report. 
These instances of lack of candor are not alleged in the SOR, so I cannot 
consider them as disqualifying conduct. But I can and do consider them in weighing 
mitigation, rehabilitation , and reform, and under the whole -person concept. In that 
regard, Applicant’s underlying conduct (the 2021 incident itself) and his failure to 
disclose it on multiple occasions during the security clearance application process, are 
both very troubling. When combined with his other conduct, they both show that 
Applicant has not fully put his old life behind him and has not established that he has 
mitigated the security concerns about his conduct. Neither AG ¶¶ 17(a) nor 17(c) 
applies to mitigate the cross-alleged security concerns at SOR ¶ 3.a, not only for 
the same reasons as set forth under Guidelines H and J above, but also for the 
other reasons set forth here. 
Whole-Person Concept 
Under the whole -person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of  
rehabilitation  and  other permanent  behavioral changes;  (7) the  motivation  
for the  conduct;  (8) the  potential  for pressure, coercion,  exploitation, or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood  of continuation  or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2( c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole -person concept. I considered the 
potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and 
circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporate d my comments under 
Guidelines H, J, and E in my whole-person analysis. credit Applicant with improving his 
life and earning an education, including an advanced degree. He is also well regarded 
at work. But the security concerns arising from his conduct are too long -term and too 
recent to be considered mitigated on this record. He has not met his burden of showing 
that he warrants access to classified information. Overall, the record evidence leaves 
me with questions and doubts as to Applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
      
    
    
 
     
 
     
 
        
      
       
 
    
 
     
 
 
 
       
     
    
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  H:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a-1.g:  Against Applicant 
Paragraph  2, Guideline  E: AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  2.a: Against Applicant 
Subparagraph  2.b: For Applicant 
Subparagraph  2.c: Against Applicant 
Paragraph  3: Guideline J:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  3.a: Against Applicant  
(except as to SOR ¶ 2.b)  
Conclusion 
Considering all the circumstances, it is not clearly consistent with the interests of 
national security to grant Applicant a security clearance . Eligibility for access to 
classified information is denied. 
Braden M. Murphy 
Administrative Judge 
12 