                                                              
 
 
                                                                                                                    
          
           
             
 
 
 
 
   
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
     
  
 
 
  
     
 
      
    
   
   
______________ 
______________ 
DEPART
MENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of:  )  
 )  
   )     ISCR Case No.  23-02694   
  )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance  )  
 
Appearances  
For Government: Mark D. Lawton, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Sean D. Rogers, Esq. 
06/24/2025 
Decision 
HOGAN, Erin C., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant mitigated the security concern s under and Guideline J, Criminal 
Conduct. The security concerns raised under G uideline E, Personal Conduct and 
Guideline H, Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse were not mitigated. E ligibility for 
access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on November 27, 2023. 
(Government Exhibit (GE) 1) The Defense Counterintelligence & Security Agency (DCSA) 
issued Applicant a Statement of Reasons (SOR) on January 24, 2024, detailing security 
concerns under Guidelines H, E, and J. DCSA acted under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 
10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as 
amended; Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel 
Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
  
   
   
    
     
    
     
      
 
 
    
  
 
 
      
       
    
     
 
     
      
    
    
    
   
    
    
  
   
    
    
 
 
    
 
   
 
 
Security Executive Agent Directive 4, National Security Adjudicative Guidelines, effective 
within the DOD as of June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR and elected a hearing before an administrative judge 
from the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA). The DOHA Hearing Office 
received the case on May 24, 2024, and it was assigned to me on December 9, 2024. On 
December 19, 2024, a Notice of Hearing was issued scheduling the hearing for February 
20, 2025. The hearing was held on that date. Department Counsel offered four exhibits 
which were marked and admitted as GE 1 - 4 without objection. Applicant through his 
counsel offered 28 exhibits, which were marked and admitted as Applicant Exhibits (AE) 
A - BB without objection. Applicant testified and called three witnesses during the hearing. 
The transcript (Tr.) was received on March 3, 2025. 
Several names and other facts have been modified to protect Applicant’s privacy 
interests. More detailed facts can be found in the record. 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s SOR response, he admits with explanation the allegations under 
Guideline H (SOR ¶¶ 1. – 1.d); denies the cross-allegation of his illegal drug use under 
Guideline J (SOR ¶ 2.a); and admits with explanation the allegations under Guideline E 
(SOR ¶¶ 3.a – 3.c). Applicant’s admissions are accepted as findings of fact. 
Applicant is 32 years old. He has been employed by a DOD contractor since June 
2017. He was first granted a secret security clearance in 2011 while enrolled as a cadet 
in one of the US military academies. In the Spring 2015, he was medically disqualified 
three m onths before his graduation from the academy. He received an honorable 
discharge. He transferred to another university and earned his undergraduate degree in 
May 2017. After graduation he was hired by his current employer and h as been 
continuously employed there. He earned a master’s degree while working full time. He 
has been promoted to other positions while working with his DOD contractor employer. 
On May 13, 2017, he submitted his first security clearance application. He was ultimately 
granted a secret security clearance. He submitted another security clearance application 
on January 4, 2023, in order to apply for a top secret clearance. He is single and has no 
children. (Tr. 14-19; GE 1 -3; AE G) 
The SOR alleges under Guideline H that Applicant purchased and used marijuana 
with varying frequency from about January 2023 until at least June 2023, after completing 
an Electronic Questionnaire for Investigations Processing (e- QIP) on January 4, 2023 
(SOR ¶ 1.a: GE 1 at 26; GE 4 at 2); from about January 2019 to at least June 2023, he 
purchased and used marijuana with varying frequency while holding a sensitive position 
and security clearance (SOR ¶ 1. b: GE 1 at 2 6; GE 4 at 2 -3, 12- 16); from about 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
     
   
     
 
    
  
 
    
   
   
 
     
       
      
 
     
 
    
     
   
 
 
  
    
   
    
    
   
   
     
Sept
ember 2015 to at least June 2023, he purchased and used marijuana with varying 
frequency (SOR ¶ 1. c: GE 1 at 26 ; GE 4 at 2-3, 12-14); and from about April 2017 to 
about May 2017, he purchased and used the prescription medication Adderall that was 
not prescribed to him. (SOR ¶ 1.d: GE 4 at 2-3, 12-14). 
The allegations under Guideline H were cross-alleged under Guideline J, Criminal 
Conduct. 
Under Guideline E, Personal Conduct, the allegations relate to Applicant’s alleged 
deliberate falsification of several e-QIP applications in relation to his purchase and use of 
marijuana and his use of Adderall without a prescription. Specifically: 
SOR ¶ 3.a alleges Applicant falsified material facts on an e- QIP application 
executed by him on November 27, 2023, in response to “Section 23 – Illegal Use of Drugs 
or Drug Activity – Illegal Use of Drug or Controlled Substances? Misuse o f Prescription 
Drugs. In the last seven (7) years have you intentionally engaged in the misuse of 
prescription drugs, regardless of whether or not the drugs were prescribed for you or 
someone else?” when he answered “No.” He deliberately failed to disclose the information 
alleged in SOR ¶ 1.d, which alleged he purchased and used the prescription medication 
Adderall, a drug that was not prescribed to him, from about April 2017 to May 2017. (GE 
1 at 26-27; GE 4 at 2-3, 12-14) 
  S OR ¶ 3.b alleges  Applicant falsified material facts on an e- QIP  application   
executed by him on January  4, 2023,  in response to “Section 23 –  Illegal Use of Drugs or  
Drug Activity  –  Illegal  Use of Drug or controlled Substances?” In the last seven years,  
have you illegally used any drugs or controlled substances? . . . in the last seven (7)  
years, have you been involved in the illegal purchase  . . . of any drug or controlled  
substance? .   .  . While Possessing a Security Clearance  Have you EVER illegally  used or  
otherwise been involved with a drug or controlled substance  while possessing a security  
clearance other than previously listed? . . .  Misuse of Prescription Drugs. In the last seven  
(7) years have you intentionally engaged in the misuse of prescription drugs, regardless  
of whether  or not the drugs were prescribed for you or someone else?” when he answered  
“No.” He deliberately failed to disclose  the information alleged in SOR ¶¶  1.a, 1.b,  1.c,  
and 1.d.  (GE  1 at 26-27;  GE 2; GE 4 at 2-3, 12-14)  
S
OR ¶ 3.c alleges Applicant falsified material facts on an e- QIP application  
executed by him on May 13, 2017, in response to “Section 23 – In the last 7 years, have 
you illegally used any controlled substance, for example . . . THC (marijuana, hashish, 
etc.) . . . or prescription drugs (including painkillers)? Use of a controlled substance 
includes injecting, snorting, inhaling, swallowing, experimenting with or otherwise 
consuming a controlled substance. ” . . . “in the last 7 years , have you been involved in 
the illegal purchase . . . of any drug or controlled substance?”. . . “in the last 7 years have 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
     
  
  
   
   
 
   
    
   
  
  
    
    
    
 
   
      
   
    
  
 
   
    
     
   
  
  
    
    
  
     
 
   
    
you intentionally engaged in the misuse of prescription drugs. Regardless  of whether or  
not the drugs were prescribed for you or someone else?” when he answered “No.” He  
deliberately failed to disclose the information alleged in SOR ¶¶  1.c  and 1.d. (GE 1 at 26-
27;  GE 3 at  25-26;  GE 4  at 2-3, 12-14)  
GUIDELINE H –  Drug Involvement  
Applicant began using marijuana around Sept ember 2015 when he was an 
undergraduate college student after his honorable discharge from the service academy 
for medical reasons . He purchased marijuana not more than once every three months 
from September 2015 to June 2023. He used it as “a recreational activity.” He used 
marijuana on average less than once a month in a social setting or by himself on 
weekends. (GE 4 at 2-3, 12) 
On his November 2023 e-QIP application, Applicant listed he used marijuana from 
approximately August 2015 to approximately May 2022. He listed the amount of use as 
“UNDER 10 TIMES, rarely.” He admits that his use occurred while possessing a security 
clearance. He indicated that he did not intend to use marijuana in the future because he 
wants to achieve his professional and personal goals and perform at a high-performance 
job. (GE 1 at 26- 27) He previously stopped using marijuana from January 2017 to 
December 2018 but started using again from January 2019 to October 2022, and then 
started using again from May 2023 to June 2023. (GE 4 at 16) 
During the hearing, Applicant testified that he work ed with classified information 
on a daily basis. He has had no data spills or security incidents. (Tr. 26-28) Under cross-
examination, he admits that the illegal drug use is a problem for personnel who hold a 
security clearance. He is aware that marijuana use remains illegal under federal law. (Tr. 
42-43) 
Applicant used Adderall without a prescription from April 2017 to May 2017. He 
purchased and used Adderall less than five times during this period for recreational 
purposes. This occurred towards the end of his undergraduate education. (GE 4 at 2-3) 
On February 1, 2024, Applicant signed a pledge to abstain from all illegal drugs, 
to include marijuana. He acknowledged that any future use of illegal drugs will be grounds 
for revocation of his security clearance and any national security eligibility. ( AE D) He 
provided samples of his hair for hair follicle tests for illegal drug use on July 9, 2024, and 
January 29, 2025. Both tests were negative for illegal drugs. (AE U; AE V) On his own 
volition, he attended a Drug and Alcohol Awareness Class in December 2024. (AE W) 
On April 19, 2024, Applicant underwent a Substance Abuse Evaluation by a 
licensed certified counselor, R.A. The evaluation used the Addiction Severity Index which 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
  
 
 
     
    
  
      
  
   
 
 
      
     
   
  
 
 
     
  
      
  
   
  
      
   
     
   
   
    
 
is a structured clinical interview instrument utilized for evaluating the severity of substance 
use and associated issues with individuals. As part of the evaluation, Applicant provided 
his substance use history as follows: 
a)  Alcohol:  11 y
 ears (orally)  –  used once weekly or bi -weekly in the past 12  
months  –  last used 4/16/2024  
b)  Cocaine: 1 time experimentation (nasal ingestion)  –  last used in 2016  
c)  Amphetamines (Adderall  -used recreationally): 2 years  (orally) –  
typically used 1 time per month for  –  last used in May 2017  
d)  Cannabis: used from 2015 to 2023, with some months or years of non-
us
e in between (smoking and orally)   
Dur
ing the assessment, Applicant stated that he had no substance use disorder 
symptoms over the past 12 months. His last use of a controlled substance was cannabis 
in December 2023. He experienced no withdrawal symptoms, cravings to use, or reduced 
functioning at work or home. After the assessment, R.A. concluded that no current/active 
substance use disorder was identified. No treatment was recommended other than 
prevention and education. (AE F) 
Guideline  J  –  Criminal Conduct  
The allegations in SOR ¶ 1, were cross alleged under the concerns raised 
Guideline J, mainly because the purchase and use of marijuana remains illegal under 
federal law. I find Guideline J for Applicant because the concern was fully addressed 
under the Guideline H security concern. 
Guideline E  –  Personal Conduct  
After Applicant submitted his January 2023 e- QIP application (GE 2) , he was 
interviewed by an investigator in conjunction with his background investigation on June 
26, 2023. During the interview, he was asked about illegal drug use within the past seven 
years. (Note: the unsworn summary of the interview claims “Subject was confronted on 
marijuana use in the past year.” The report of investigation is unclear whether the 
investigator had information about his marijuana use or if they just asked about whether 
Applicant used marijuana in the past year.) Applicant told the investigator that he illegally 
used and purchased marijuana and used Adderall, without a prescription. During college, 
he purchased both drugs from other students. After college, he had marijuana delivered 
to his residence (it is illegal in the state where he resides). Later, he purchased marijuana 
at a dispensary in the state where his parents reside. Marijuana is legal in the state where 
they reside. (GE 4 at 12) 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
   
  
    
  
   
 
        
      
   
      
     
    
 
      
   
     
 
   
   
 
     
   
    
 
  
 
    
  
   
   
    
   
     
   
    
   
  
 
  
      
Applicant admitted to using marijuana and Adderall within the past seven years. 
He told the investigator that he used marijuana from approximately September 2015 to 
June 2023. He used it less than once a month in a social setting or by himself on 
weekends once a month. He admitted that he purchased and used marijuana while 
possessing a security clearance. When he was in college, he purchased and used 
Adderall from April 2017 to May 2017 on less than five occasions. He did not have a 
security clearance when he used Adderall. (GE 4 at 12-13, 15) 
During the interview, Applicant admitted that he did not list his use and purchase 
of Adderall on his case paperwork out of fear about his career and dishonesty. (GE 4 at 
12-13) He did not list his purchase and use of marijuana and Adderall, without a 
prescription in response to Section 23 – Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity on his first 
e-QIP, dated May 23, 2017. (GE 3 at 25-26) He also did not list his purchase and use of 
marijuana and Adderall on his second e-QIP, dated January 4, 2023. (GE 2 at 26-27) 
During the hearing, Applicant testified that he did not list his use and purchase of 
marijuana and Adderall on his May 2017 e-QIP application because after all the hard work 
that he put into his academics, he feared that if he had been truthful about his illegal drug 
use, he would not get to work for his employer and would severely jeopardize his 
professional career. In hindsight, he admits it was the wrong decision and he should have 
been truthful on the form. (Tr. 22-23) 
In January 2023, Applicant submitted his second e-QIP application in order to 
upgrade his security clearance to t op secret. He admits he did not list his use and 
purchase of marijuana and Adderall on this application. He testified: 
I believe that I still had deep- seated fears of losing - - jeopardizing my 
career. Jeopardizing another wonderful opportunity. Jeopardizing 
something that I’ve wanted to like I said since I was a child is that serving 
my country, supporting the United States military in this case in a civilian 
capacity. I also believe at the time, I had put myself in a position where I 
couldn’t go back. I felt the way I answered the first SF -86, I needed to be 
consistent with that because - - and now I’ve learned otherwise and 
understand what I did here was wrong, but I felt that how I’d answered in 
the first SF -86 would come into question if I had put different answers on 
the second SF-86. So the combination of the fear of losing my career, as 
well as changing my answers would open up a box – open up a can of 
worms that would lead me to lose everything that I had worked so hard for. 
(Tr. 31-32) 
Applicant testified that during his July 2023 interview with the investigator 
conducting his background investigation, he disclosed his illegal drug use. He testified 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
 
 
      
  
      
  
  
 
 
   
  
    
 
     
     
 
 
      
        
   
   
 
   
      
      
   
    
  
 
 
that he reached a level of maturity and now understood it was important for him to be 100 
percent honest . He was promoted to a new position and was learning about the 
importance of national security and that the importance of being extremely truthful. (Tr. 
34) 
During the last two years, Applicant testified that he has disclosed his illegal drug 
use to various mentors, professionally and personally. On November 27, 2023, Applicant 
completed another e- QIP application (GE 1) in order to clear his consci ence and be 
completely honest about his illegal drug use. He disclosed his marijuana purchase and 
use. He did not list his Adderall purchase and use because he forgot about it. He 
previously told the investigator conducting his background investigation about it so he 
thought the government was informed. He said he did not intend to omit his Adderall use 
on the November 2023 e-QIP. He also explained that sometime after he submitted the 
November 2023 e-QIP, he was reminded by a close friend that he had used cocaine on 
one occasion in 2016. (Tr. 35-37) 
Applicant has not used illegal drugs in over two years. He has no intention to use 
illegal drugs in the future. (Tr. 37-38) 
Whole- Person Evidence  
Several of Applicant’s friends and colleagues either testified or wrote letters on his 
behalf. Mr. D.B. has known Applicant for 11 years. They met in college. He works for the 
same DOD contractor but in a different area. He holds a secret security clearance. He 
recommends Applicant for a security clearance. (Tr. 60-64; AE L)  
Mr. A.E. attended the service academy at the same time as Applicant. He notes 
Applicant worked hard at the academy and never cheated. Applicant had to the leave the 
academy because of a medical issue. He is aware that Applicant used marijuana and 
Adderall in the past. He testified Applicant is very trustworthy and honest. He states the 
fact that Applicant came clean about his past drug use shows maturity. He supports 
Applicant being able to maintain his security clearance. (Tr. 67-73; AE I) 
Mr. B.U . is one of Applicant’s neighbors.  He  testified and wrote a letter on  
Applicant’s behalf.  He has  known Applicant  for about three years.  Applicant  helped him  
get a job at the DOD contractor where Applicant is employed. He has never seen  
Applicant  use marijuana.  He  states Applicant would take the shirt off his  back  to help 
someone. He is trustworthy and honest. He looks up to  Applicant  and will always support  
him.  He believes the fact that Applicant came forward and admitted he was wrong takes  
a lot of courage. He  recommends  that Applicant  maintain his security clearance.  (Tr.  74-
76; AE BB)  
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
      
   
   
    
  
  
 
   
  
     
 
   
     
  
 
 
    
 
     
 
  
 
  
    
 
  
  
    
      
  
    
 
   
 
 
 
     
    
   
Additional friends and colleagues wrote letters on Applicant’s behalf attesting to 
his good character, volunteerism, and excellent work ethic. (AE J-K; AE M – S; AE BB) 
Applicant’s performance forms for 2017 and 2019 – 2023 were favorable. (AE H) 
Applicant also received many positive and favorable comments during his 2024 
evaluation feedback. (AE Y) He has earned numerous certifications. (AE AA). He 
volunteers as a certified youth basketball referee. One of the requirements for his 
certification was to undergo a criminal records check. He has no criminal record. (Tr. 39; 
AE X) 
In his spare time, Applicant does a lot of volunteer work. He volunteers at a yoga 
studio; helps out at local shelter during “Code Blue” cold weather assisting the homeless 
to find a warm indoor space during the extreme cold; plays in his employer’s bowling 
league and indoor soccer league; visits local schools to educate them on science , 
technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM); he is also a member of a community 
service group – he organizes six community service events to help the local community. 
(Tr. 40-41) 
Policies  
It is well established that no one has a right to a security clearance. As the 
Supreme Court held, “the clearly consistent standard indicates that security 
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy 
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988). 
The adjudicative guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 
2(b) requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for access to 
classified information will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this 
decision, I have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on 
the evidence contained in the record. Likewise, I have avoided drawing inferences 
grounded on mere speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
 
   
 
 
    
 
   
  
   
  
  
 
     
 
 
   
 
 
 
      
  
 
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel, and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable security decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
that an applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
DOD and Federal Government Policy on  Marijuana Use  
On October 25, 2014, the Director for National Intelligence issued a memorandum 
titled, “Adherence to Federal Laws Prohibiting Marijuana Use” addressing concerns 
raised by the decriminalization of marijuana use in several states and the District of 
Columbia. The memorandum states that changes to state and local laws do not alter the 
existing National Security Adjudicative Guidelines. “An individual’s disregard for federal 
law pertaining to the use, sale, or manufacture of marijuana remains adjudicatively 
relevant in national security determinations.” 
On May 26, 2015, the Director of the United States Office of Personnel 
Management (OPM) issued a memorandum titled, “Federal Laws and Policies Prohibiting 
Marijuana Use.” The Director of OPM acknowledged that several jurisdictions have 
decriminalized the use of marijuana, allowing the use of marijuana for medicinal purposes 
and/or for limited recreational use but states that Federal law on marijuana remains 
unchanged. Marijuana is categorized as a controlled substance under Schedule I of the 
Controlled Substances Act. Thus, knowing or intentional marijuana possession is 
federally illegal, even if the individual has no intent to manufacture, distribute, or dispense 
marijuana. 
On December  21, 2021, the Director of National Intelligence signed the  
memorandum,  Security Executive Agent Clarifying Guidance Concerning Marijuana for  
Agencies Conducting Adjudications of Persons Proposed for Eligibility for Access to  
Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position.  It emphasizes that federal  
law remains unchanged with respect to the illegal use,  possession, production, and  
distribution of  marijuana. Individuals who hold a clearance or occupy a sensitive position  
are prohibited by law from using controlled substances. Disregard of  federal law  
pertaining to marijuana (including prior recreational  marijuana use) remains relevant,  but  
not  determinative, to adjudications  of  eligibility. Agencies are required to use the “whole-
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
    
  
  
  
  
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
    
person concept” stated under SEAD 4, to determine whether the applicant’s behavior 
raises a security concern that has not been mitigated. 
Analysis  
Guideline H: Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse   
AG ¶ 24 expresses the security concern for drug involvement: 
The illegal use of controlled substances . . . can raise questions about an 
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. 
I have considered the disqualifying conditions for drug involvement and substance 
misuse under AG ¶ 25 and the following are potentially applicable: 
AG ¶  25(a) any  
 substance misuse;   
AG  ¶  25(c)  illegal  pos session of a controlled substance, including  
cultivation, processing, manufacture,  purchase, sale, or distribution; or  
possession of drug paraphernalia; and  .  
AG ¶ 25(f )  any illegal drug use while granted access to classified information  
or
 holding a sensitive position.    
The record evidence shows  Applicant  used marijuana at various times from  about  
September 2015 to at  least June 2023. H is  use was more frequent as a college 
undergraduate  from 2015 to 2017.  He s topped using marijuana from 2017 to  2019.  He 
began to purchase and use marijuana again in January 2019 while he was employed in  
a sensitive position with a DOD contractor. He purchased and used marijuana while he  
possessed a security  clearance  and handled classified information.  While his marijuana  
use was on average of less than once a month, it was illegal  under federal law and under  
the state law where  Applicant resided.  Applicant also purchased and used Adderall  
without  a prescription  on about five occasions  from April 2017  to May 2017. AG  ¶ 25(a), 
AG  ¶ 25(b),  and  AG ¶ 25(f)  apply to Applicant’s case.  
T
he Government’s substantial evidence and Applicant’s admissions raise security 
concerns under Guideline H. The burden shifted to Applicant to produce evidence to 
rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the security concerns. (Directive ¶ E3.1.15) An 
applicant has the burden of proving a mitigating condition, and the burden of disproving 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
    
    
  
 
 
  
      
 
 
 
   
   
     
 
 
 
     
   
   
  
it never shifts to the Government. (See ISCR Case No. 02-31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sept. 22, 
2005)) 
Applicant’s one-time use of cocaine in 2016 was not alleged in the SOR. It will only 
be considered under matters of extenuation and mitigation. In ISCR Case No. 03-20327 
at 4 (App. Bd. Oct. 26, 2006), the Appeal Board listed five circumstances in which conduct 
not alleged in an SOR may be considered stating: 
(a) to assess an applicant’s credibility; (b) to evaluate an applicant’s  
evidence of  extenuation,  mitigation, or changed circumstances; (c) to  
consider whether  an applicant has demonstrated successful rehabilitation;  
(d) to decide whether a particular provision of the Adjudicative Guidelines is  
applicable; or (e) to provide evidence for whole person analysis under  
Directive Section 6.3.   
Id. (citing ISCR Case No. 02-07218 at 3 (App. Bd. Mar. 15, 2004); ISCR Case No. 
00-0633 at 3 (App. Bd. Oct. 24, 2003)). See also ISCR Case No. 12-09719 at 3 (App. Bd. 
Apr. 6, 2016) (citations omitted)). The non-SOR allegations will not be considered except 
for the five purposes listed above. 
The guideline also includes examples of conditions that could mitigate security 
concerns arising from drug involvement and substance misuse . The following mitigating 
conditions under AG ¶ 26 potentially apply: 
AG ¶ 26(a)  the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or  
hap
pened under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or does not  
cast doubt  on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  
judgment; and  
AG ¶ 26( b)  the  individual acknowledges his  or her drug involvement and  
substance misuse,  provides evidence on actions taken to overcome this  
problem, and has established a p  attern of abstinence,  including, but  not  
limited to:  (1) Disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts;  (2)  
changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were used; and (3)  
providing a signed statement  of intent to abstain from  all drug involvement  
and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future involvement or  
misuse is  grounds for revocation of national security eligibility.   
AG ¶
 26(a) applies with regard to Applicant’s use of Adderall without a prescription 
while in college from April 2017 to May 2017. More than eight years have passed since 
his last use of Adderall and it is unlikely to recur. (SOR ¶ 1.d). Though unalleged, his 
2016 one-time use of cocaine occurred more than nine years ago and is unlikely to occur. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
     
  
 
   
     
   
   
    
   
      
 
    
 
 
  
  
  
    
 
  
 
      
   
 
 
    
     
   
   
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
  
  
    
AG ¶ 26(a) does not apply with respect to Applicant’s marijuana use (SOR ¶¶ 1.a – 1.c). 
Although his last use of marijuana occurred over two years ago, not enough time has 
passed to conclude he has fully stopped marijuana use based on his history. Most 
concerning is Applicant’s continued use of marijuana while employed in a sensitive 
position with his DOD contractor , while possessing a security clearance, and while 
actively handling classified information although he was fully aware that marijuana use 
was not compatible with holding a security clearance and if discovered, could jeopardize 
his career. Security concerns remain about Applicant’s reliability, trustworthiness and 
good judgment because of his history of illegal use of marijuana especially while 
employed in a sensitive position with a DOD contractor after being granted a security 
clearance. 
AG ¶ 26(b) partially applies. Applicant has not used illegal drugs in over two years. 
He provided a statement of intent to abstain from illegal drug involvement and substance 
misuse. He is aware that any future illegal drug use may result in the revocation of his 
security clearance. However, this mitigation is given less weight because security 
concerns remain regarding Applicant’s history of illegal marijuana use, especially while 
employed in a sensitive position with a DOD Contractor while possessing a security 
clearance. Applicant was aware that illegal marijuana use was not compatible with 
working in a sensitive position and holding a security clearance. He chose to use 
marijuana despite these concerns. 
Overall, I found Applicant did not mitigate the security concerns raised under 
Guideline H, Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse. 
Guideline J  –  Criminal Conduct  
The allegations under Guideline H, Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse, were 
cross alleged under Criminal Conduct. While criminal conduct security concerns are 
similarly established, I nonetheless find for Applicant under this Guideline because the 
conduct was appropriately addressed under Guideline H , and the Guideline J security 
concerns are duplicative. 
Guideline E  –  Personal Conduct      
The security concern relating to the guideline for Personal Conduct is set out in 
AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness , and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
    
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
   
   
    
  
  
    
  
       
  
   
    
 
   
 
 
 
cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during the national 
security or adjudicative processes. . . . 
The following disqualifying conditions under AG ¶ 16 potentially apply to 
Applicant’s case: 
AG ¶ 16(a) deliberate omission, concealment, or falsification of relevant  
fac
ts from any  personnel  security  questionnaire, personal history  statement,  
or similar form used to conduct investigations, determine employment  
qualifications, award benefits or status, determine national security  eligibility  
or trustworthiness,  or award fiduciary responsibilities;  and  
AG ¶ 16(e)  personal conduct, or concealment  of i nformation about one’s  
conduct, that creates  a vulnerability to exploitation,  manipulation, or  duress  
by a foreign intelligence entity or other individual or group. Such conduct  
includes: (1) engaging in activities which, if known, could affect a person’s  
personal, professional, or community standing.  
AG ¶
 16(a) applies with regard to SOR ¶¶ 3.b and 3.c. Applicant admits that he 
deliberately failed to list his illegal marijuana and Adderall use on both his May 2017 and 
January 2023 e -QIP applications. He hid his past illegal drug use because he was 
concerned he would lose his job. I find for Applicant with respect to SOR ¶ 3.a, which 
alleged he deliberately omitted his illegal Adderall use on his November 2023 security 
clearance application. I find Applicant’s testimony that he overlooked putting his 2017 
Adderall use in response to section 23 credible. A few months before he completed the 
November 2023 security clearance application, he told the investigator during his 
background investigation interview about his Adderall use. I find the omission accidental 
and immaterial because the Government was previously informed about his Adderall use. 
AG ¶ 16(e) applies with regard to Applicant’s deliberate failure to list his illegal drug 
use on his May 2017 and January 2023 security clearance applications . His omission 
made him vulnerable to exploitation, manipulation or duress because it could potentially 
adversely affect his professional standing. 
Under Guideline E, the following mitigating conditions potentially apply in 
Applicant’s case: 
AG ¶ 17(c) the offense is so minor, or so much time has passed,  or t
 he  
behavior is so infrequent,  or it  happened under such unique circumstances  
that is  unlikely  to recur  and does not cast  doubt on the individual’s reliability,  
trustworthiness, or  good judgment;   
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
 
      
   
   
    
  
  
 
    
  
 
  
 
   
   
  
 
       
    
  
     
   
 
      
 
 
  
 
   
   
 
AG ¶ 17(e)  the individual has taken positive steps to reduce or  el
 iminate  
vulnerability to exploitation,  manipulation, or duress.   
AG ¶ 1
7(c) does not apply with respect to SOR ¶¶ 3.b and 3.c. Applicant 
deliberately falsified his May 2017 e-QIP application by omitting his illegal drug use. He 
was concerned that his past illegal drug use could jeopardize his career. He perpetuated 
this lie for over seven years. Not only did he not list his past illegal drug use, he began 
using marijuana again in 2019 after being granted his security clearance. When he 
completed his January 2023 security clearance application, he felt that if he disclosed his 
past illegal drug use his career would be threatened. His conduct was deceitful and raised 
questions about his trustworthiness and reliability. While Applicant disclosed his past 
illegal drug use during his July 2023 background investigation interview, it cannot be 
considered prompt, more than six years passed since his original deliberate falsification 
of his security clearance application. The Government expects individuals who are 
granted access to classified information to be truthful and straight-forward at all times. 
Intentional falsifications cut to the heart of the security clearance process. It is 
serious because a person should not receive access to classified information based on 
false information. A person who lies during the security -clearance process is not 
trustworthy. They cannot be relied upon to report a security infraction or violation. This 
mitigating condition does not apply. 
AG ¶ 17(e) applies because Applicant has now fully disclosed that his past illegal 
drug use and admitted that he deliberately failed to disclose his illegal drug use on his 
May 2017 and January 2023 e-QIP applications. He has been forthcoming since this time 
and has not illegally used drugs since June 2023. He is no longer vulnerable to 
exploitation, manipulation, or duress. 
Personal Conduct security concerns are not mitigated. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a public trust position by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1)  the nature,  extent,  and  seriousness of the conduct; (2) the circumstances  
surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable participation; (3)  the  
frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the individual’s age  and  
maturity at the time of  the conduct; (5)  the extent to which participation  
is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation and other  
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
  
 
   
  
  
 
    
   
   
    
   
 
   
     
  
    
  
  
 
   
    
     
   
 
 
       
    
 
   
 
          
 
    
 
   
 
permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; (8) 
the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. I considered the potentially 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances 
surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under Guideline H and t he AG 
¶ 2(d) factors in this whole-person analysis. 
I considered that Applicant ’s favorable employment record and academic 
credentials. I considered the favorable comments from his friends and colleagues. I 
considered his extensive volunteer activities. While Applicant ultimately disclosed his 
illegal drug use during his July 2023 background investigation interview and on his 
November 2023 e- QIP application , security concerns remain because of his previous 
deliberate omissions on his May 2017 and January 2023 security clearance applications. 
Not only did he lie about his past drug use, he continued to use marijuana while working 
for his DOD contractor employer in a sensitive position and after being entrusted with 
access to classified information. While he stopped using marijuana in either June 2023 
and does not intend to use illegal drugs in the future, it is too soon to conclude Applicant 
will follow through on his intentions because he previously violated the Government’s trust 
by deliberately lying about his illegal drug use on two security clearance applications and 
continued to illegally us e marijuana while in a sensitive position that required a security 
clearance. After weighing the disqualifying and mitigating conditions under Guidelines H, 
J, and E and evaluating all the evidence in the context of the whole person, I conclude 
Applicant mitigated the security concerns raised by his conduct under Guideline J, but did 
not mitigate security concerns under Guidelines H and E. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline H:   AGAINST  APPL
 ICANT  
Subparagraphs  1 .a  –  1.c:   
Subparagraph 1.d:   
  A gainst  Applicant   
For Applicant  
Paragraph 2,  G uideline J:   FOR APPLICANT  
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          
 
   
 
    
 
   
   
 
     
   
  
                                                
 
  
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
Subparagraph 2. a:   
Paragraph 3,  Guideline E:   
   F or Applicant   
AGAINST APPLICANT  
S
ubparagraph 3.a:   For Applicant  
Subparagraphs 3.b  –  3.c:   Against Applicant  
Conclusion  
In l
ight of all of the circumstances presented, it is not clearly consistent with the 
interests of national security to grant Applicant’s eligibility for access to classified 
information. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Erin C. Hogan 
Administrative Judge 
16 