 
 
 
  
                                                              
                             
          
           
         
 
 
    
  
       
     
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
     
 
   
     
   
  
  
     
     
   
    
  
 
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 23-00671 
) 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Nicole A. Smith, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
09/18/2025 
Decision 
LOKEY ANDERSON, Darlene D., Administrative Judge: 
Statement of Case  
On April 19, 2022 , Applicant submitted a security clearance application ( e-QIP). 
On June 8, 2023, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency Consolidated 
Adjudication Services (DCSA CA S) issued Applicant a Statement of Reasons (SOR), 
detailing security concerns under Guideline F, Financial Considerations. The action was 
taken under Executive Order 10865 (EO), Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DoD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial 
Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended 
(Directive); and the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility 
for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), 
effective within the DoD after June 8, 2017. 
 
 
 
       
  
     
     
     
      
   
 
     
   
 
   
   
    
     
    
   
 
  
   
          
 
 
 
       
     
  
    
  
     
 
 
 
  
    
  
 
  
   
   
    
     
 
Applicant answered the SOR on July 13, 2023, and requested a hearing before 
an administrative judge.  The case was assigned to me on July 1, 2025.  The Defense 
Office of Hearings and Appeals issued a notice of hearing on July 2, 2025, and the 
hearing was convened as scheduled on August 20, 2025.  The Government offered four 
exhibits, referred to as Government Exhibits 1 through 4, which were admitted without 
objection. The Applicant offered no exhibits, but she testified on her own behalf.  DOHA 
received the transcript of the hearing (Tr.) on September 2, 2025. 
Amendment to the Statement of Reasons  
Department Counsel pursuant to E.3.1.3. of DoD Directive 5220.6 amended the 
Statement of Reasons on February 28, 2025, to add subparagraphs 1.e through 1.i 
under Guideline F.  Except for allegation 1.h., Applicant submitted answers to each of 
the amendments. She testified that with respect to allegation 1.h., she did not answer 
the allegation because she was not sure what it was for. She acknowledges that it is 
her debt.  (Tr. p. 9.)  The SOR was amended as requested. 
Department Counsel also requested to withdraw allegation 1.c., indicating that 
the Government has no evidence to show that the debt remains owing.  Accordingly, 
allegation 1.c. was withdrawn from the SOR, and found for the Applicant.  (Tr. p. 9.) 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 40 years old.  She is a single parent, separated from her second 
husband, and has four children ages 7, 9, 20, and 23. She has a high school diploma 
and various certifications and licenses including, a phlebotomist technician license; a 
nursing assistant certification; and a license to sell insurance. She is in the hiring 
process to work as a Medical Clerk at a Naval Hospital.  A security clearance is required 
in connection with this employment. 
Guideline F - Financial Considerations  
The Government alleged that Applicant is ineligible for a clearance because she 
made financial decisions that indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which raise questions about her 
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified information. 
The SOR identified eight delinquent debts, that include various consumer debts 
and vehicle repossessions, totaling in excess of $35,000.  Applicant admitted each of 
the allegations set forth under this guideline.  Three credit reports of the Applicant dated 
October 21, 2022; August 30, 2023; and February 28, 2024, confirm the indebtedness 
listed in the SOR. (Government Exhibits 2, 3 and 4.) 
2 
 
 
 
      
    
   
 
  
   
      
   
 
   
    
  
   
   
 
     
  
   
  
    
      
   
 
   
  
 
 
   
  
   
     
 
           
 
 
Applicant has been married twice.  Her first marriage was from 2003 to 2008. 
Her two children from that marriage are adults and no longer reside with her.  Applicant 
married her second husband in April 2022, but they separated in September 2023. She 
has two minor children from that marriage.  She has also been responsible for 
financially supporting her grandchild who is now 8 years old.  Applicant has never 
received regular child support for any of her four children, even though there is a court 
order issued for her to receive support for her two minor children.  At times, she has had 
to work two jobs to provide for her family. 
In 2021, Applicant moved from state A to state B with her boyfriend who had a 
job in state B.  She also had a job lined up there, but later found out that she was not 
certified in the state and could not be hired for the position.  From September 2021 to 
March 2022, she was unemployed.  During that period, she received food stamps and 
the father of her daughter was sending $100 a week to help with gas and to pay her 
credit card bill.  She did not receive unemployment benefits.  In April 2022, she and her 
boyfriend got married, and moved back to state A.  In September 2023, when she and 
her husband separated; Applicant started working as a medical clerk at the Naval 
hospital in a full -time position that paid $21.17 per hour. She held this job until about 
March 2024 when they had to let her go because her young daughter became ill and 
Applicant had to take her to regular medical appointments and could no longer commit 
to working full time. Applicant was unemployed until September 2024.  During this 
period, she took classes to obtain her insurance license. 
Applicant is a single parent and is responsible for her two minor children who 
reside with her.  In September 2024, she became employed full time at a Nursing home 
as a Certified Nursing Assistant, and she currently earns $19.00 hourly.  A security 
clearance is not necessary for this job.  Her two youngest children live at home with her, 
and she provides for their financial support.   She has never received any credit 
counseling.  She recently hired a credit repair specialist to assist her in resolving her 
delinquent debts.  She paid her the initial fee of $185 to get started, and $45 monthly. 
Presently, all of the delinquent debts set forth in the SOR remain owing. 
The following delinquent debts listed in the SOR are of security concern: 
1.a.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount  of  $23,971 for an account  
that was charged off for the purchase of a vehicle.   The vehicle, a Ford F -150, was  
purchased in September 2021.  It was purchased for  $35,000, and the monthly  
payments were about  $625.  Applicant had it for  about  two months  before she stopped  
making payments  on it in November 2021.  The vehicle was repossessed in December  
2021.  She stated that in February  2022, she used her income tax refund of  $4,000 to  
pay the balance down.  The debt remains  owing.  (Tr.  pp.  38-41.)  
1.b.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of  $848 for an account that  
was charged off.   This was a credit card she opened in September 2021.   She made  
3 
 
 
 
   
     
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
one payment.  That payment was made in October 2021.  She purchased school 
clothes for her children.   The debt remains owing.  (Tr. pp. 41-42.) 
1.c.  Applicant was indebted to a creditor in the amount of  $112 for an account  
that was charged off.   The Government withdrew the allegation at the hearing.  The debt  
is no longer  owing.  This allegation is found for the Applicant.    
1.d.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of $5,379 for the balance  
due on a vehicle that  was repossessed.  This was the purchase of a vehicle, a Ford F -
150.  The account was opened in March 2019.  The monthly payments were $275.   
Applicant  made her last payment in January 2021, and then gave the truck to her  older  
son.  His father, her first husband, was supposed to help their son with the rest of the  
payments.  This did not happen.  The car was eventually repossessed.  The debt  
remains owing.  (Tr. pp. 42-43.)  
1.e.   Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of  $1,570 for an account  
that is past due.  This  was for furniture Applicant purchased for her home.  She opened  
the account in September 2022 and made a last  payment on October 2022.   She stated 
that she had been making weekly  payments.   She could not afford to make further  
payments because she was not working full time.  The debt remains owing.   (Tr. pp.  44-
46.)  
1.f.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the  amount of $523 for an account that  
is past due.   Applicant claims that someone stole her  bank credit card (an overdraft  
protection account) and took the money  from her bank  account  and went shopping at  
several stores.     She reported it to the police and closed the  account.   The debt  
remains owing.  (Tr. pp. 46-47.)       
1.g.   Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of  $1,926 for an account  
that is past  due.  This was a personal loan that was used for the cost of a U -haul to  
move out  of state with  her and her boyfriend’s possessions.   One payment was  made in  
November 2021.  The debt remains owing.  (Tr. pp.  47-48.)    
1.h.   Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of  $645 for an account that  
is past due.  The debt  remains  owing.   Applicant believes that  this  may  be a hospital bill  
but she is not sure.   If  so, Applicant contends that if it pertains to her daughter, Medicaid  
should have covered the cost.  (Tr. pp.  49-50.)     
1.i.   Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of  $312 for an account that  
is past due.  This is a hospital bill for an account that was  opened in November 2024.   
Applicant believes that Medicaid should also cover this debt.  The debt remains  owing.   
(Tr. pp. 5-51.)  
4 
 
 
 
    
   
   
 
 
    
 
 
      
   
 
 
   
      
    
  
      
   
 
 
 
   
     
 
 
 
 
       
     
  
    
     
  
 
    
 
    
  
    
      
    
    
 
Applicant stated that she was hired for a position as a Medical Clerk with the 
Navy last September.  In order to start her employment, she needs to obtain a security 
clearance. 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The 
administrative judge’s over arching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and 
commonsense decision.  The entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of 
variables known as the whole- person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I 
have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical and based on the 
evidence contained in the record. Likewise, I have avoided drawing inferences 
grounded on mere speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, 
or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel .” The 
applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable clearance 
decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The g overnment 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to 
potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
5 
 
 
 
   
  
     
    
 
 
 
 
       
 
  
   
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
   
  
 
  
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline F -  Financial Considerations  
The security concern for Financial Considerations is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
Affluence that cannot be explained by known sources of income is also a 
security concern insofar as it may result from criminal activity, including 
espionage. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. Two are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) inability or unwillingness to satisfy debts;  a
 nd    
(c) a history of not  mee ting financial  obligations.  
Appli
cant has a history of financial hardship.  Her actions or inactions both 
demonstrate a history of not addressing debt and/or an inability to do so. The evidence 
is sufficient to raise the above disqualifying conditions. 
The following mitigating conditions under the Financial Considerations guideline 
are potentially applicable under AG ¶ 20. 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
under
 such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast  
doubt  on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good  
judgment;  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
  
    
  
  
   
 
   
 
     
  
   
       
 
  
    
    
 
  
 
 
 
   
    
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely  
beyo
nd the person’s control (e.g. loss  of employment, a business  
downturn, unexpected medical emergency, or a death, divorce, or  
separation), and the individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;   
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good faith effort  to  repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;    
(e) the individual has  a reas onable basis to  dispute the legitimacy  of the 
past-due debt  which i s  the c ause of the problem  and provides  
documented proof to  substantiate the basis of the dispute or provides  
evidence of actions to resolve the issue; and  
(g) the individual  has  made arrangements with the appropriate tax  
authority to file or pay the amount  owed and is in compliance with those  
arrangements.  
Cir
cumstances beyond the Applicant’s control, namely sporadic periods of 
unemployment; her daughter’s unexpected medical condition; a divorce; and then a 
separation; have all contributed to her financial problems, but they were not the only 
reasons for her indebtedness.  Over the years, she has had sustained periods of full -
time employment, and she has still not addressed her delinquent debts.  In the past it 
seems that unless she has worked two jobs, or had some additional income from her 
partners, she has been unable to pay her bills on time. She has not demonstrated a 
good faith effort to resolve her debts.  She only recently hired someone to assist her in 
resolving her debts and repairing her credit.  Her inability to resolve these debts casts 
doubt on her current reliability, trustworthiness, and/or good judgment.  Applicant 
appears to want to resolve her debt but is not currently earning enough money to do so. 
At this time, Applicant needs more time to establish a track record of payments, and 
show the Government that she can and will properly resolve her financial delinquencies. 
Mitigating condition AG ¶ 20(b), applies but does not establish full mitigation. 
Each of the debts listed in the SOR remain owing.  Applicant does not have 
sufficient monies available at this time to pay on them.  She has made no progress 
toward resolving her debt.  Except for allegation 1.c, which was withdrawn by the 
Government, she remains excessively indebted to each of the creditors listed in the 
SOR.  There is insufficient evidence in the record to show that, the Applicant has carried 
her burden of proof to establish mitigation of the Governments security concerns under 
Guideline F. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
7 
 
 
 
       
  
  
 
  
   
    
  
 
   
 
 
   
   
 
 
  
    
 
  
 
      
 
      
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5)  the  extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of  
rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation  
for the conduct; (8) the potential for  pressure, coercion, exploitation,  or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. In the event that 
Applicant follows through with her commitment to show financial responsibility, 
sometime in the future she may be found to be sufficiently reliable to properly protect 
and access classified information, but not at this time. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
relevant facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I conclude Applicant has not 
mitigated the Financial Considerations security concern. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by ¶ E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  G
 uideline F:   AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a. and 1.b.   Against  Applicant  
Subparagraph 1.c.   For Applicant   
Subparagraphs 1.d.  through 1.i.  Against Applicant  
8 
 
 
 
 
       
     
      
                                                
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue Applicant’s eligibility for 
a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Darlene Lokey Anderson 
Administrative Judge 
9 