 
 
 
  
 
               DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
    DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS   
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                    
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
        
  
 
 
       
         
     
         
         
       
      
  
       
        
              
       
    
 
______________ 
______________ 
In the  matter of:   )  
 )   
    )     ISCR Case No.  23-00788  
   )  
Applicant for Security Clearance   )  
Appearances  
For Government: David F. Hayes, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
02/18/2025 
Decision  
Curry, Marc E., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant presented insufficient evidence of what progress, if any, he has made to 
resolve his delinquent debt. Under these circumstances, he failed to mitigate the financial 
considerations security concerns. His application for a security clearance is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On May 16, 2023, t he Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
Consolidated Adjudications Services (DCSA CAS) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) 
to Applicant detailing sec urity concerns under Guideline F , financial consideration s, 
explaining why it was unable to find it clearly consistent with the national security to grant 
or continue his security clearance eligibility . The DCSA CAS took the action under 
Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry 
(February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of Defense ( DOD) Directive 5220.6, 
Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as 
amended (Directive); and the National Adjudicative Guidelines (AG) effective for any 
adjudication made on or after June 8, 2017. On August 11, 2023, Applicant answered the 
SOR, admitting all of the allegations and requesting a decision based on the written rather 
than a hearing. On August 23, 2023 , Department Counsel prepared a File of Relevant 
Material (FORM), setting forth the Government’s arguments against Applicant’s security 
1 
 
 
          
   
 
         
             
      
 
  
         
       
    
 
           
                 
      
  
 
 
 
   
         
    
 
          
            
 
  
 
clearance worthiness. The FORM contains six attachments, identified as Item 1 through 
Item 6. 
Applicant received a copy of the FORM on August 24, 2023. He was given 30 days 
to file a response. He did not file a response . The case was assigned to me on October 
27, 2023. After receiving the FORM, I admitted Items 1 through 6 into the record. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 42 years old . He has been married since 2020 and was married 
previously from 2005 to 2017. His earlier marriage ended in divorce. He has six children, 
ranging in age from two to eighteen. 
Applicant is a veteran of the U.S. Army, serving honorably on active duty from 2002 
through 2006 and in the reserves from 2006 to 2017 . (Item 3 at 1 ; Item 2 at 14 ) He has 
spent most of his career working in the information technology field and has been working 
for a defense contractor since March 2022. (GE 2 at 10) 
Over the  years, Applicant incurred  approximately $80,000  of delinquent debt.  (Item  
4) He attributed  his financial problems to  his divorce  in 2017, together with  a  COVID-
related  job  loss  in 2020. (Item  4  at  10) During  an  investigative  interview in March  2022,  
he  promised  to  begin resolving  his debt within  three  to  six months of the  interview. (Item  
3 at 6) He did not do so.  
In October 2022, Applicant completed interrogatories propounded by DCSA CAS. 
Per a budget he provided, he and his spouse earn approximately $150,000 per year and 
have $9,364 of monthly discretionary income. (Item 4 at 12) 
Applicant, in his answer of August 2023 , stated that he was working with a debt 
resolution company to consolidate his debts. (Item 2) He provided no evidence of any 
such efforts. 
Policies  
The  U.S. Supreme  Court has recognized  the  substantial discretion  the  Executive  
Branch  has in regulating  access to  information  pertaining  to  national security,  
emphasizing  that  “no  one  has  a  ‘right’  to  a  security clearance.” Department  of the  Navy  
v. Egan, 484  U.S. 518, 528  (1988).  When  evaluating  an  applicant’s suitability for a  security  
clearance, the  administrative  judge  must  consider the  adjudicative  guidelines.  In  addition  
to  brief  introductory explanations for each  guideline, the  adjudicative  guidelines list  
potentially disqualifying  conditions and  mitigating  conditions, which  are  required  to  be  
considered  in evaluating  an  applicant’s eligibility for access to  classified  information.  
These  guidelines are not inflexible  rules of  law. Instead, recognizing  the  complexities of  
human  behavior,  these  guidelines  are  applied  in conjunction  with  the  factors listed  in  the  
adjudicative  process. The  administrative  judge’s overa ll  adjudicative  goal is a  fair,  
impartial,  and  commonsense  decision. According  to  AG ¶  2(a), the  entire process is a  
2 
 
 
     
     
    
 
     
    
         
       
      
        
         
       
          
 
 
 
 
 
 
          
    
       
 
  
 
        
          
  
      
 
conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the “whole-person concept.” 
The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the 
person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 1(d ) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present 
evidence to establish controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, 
the applicant is responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, 
explain, extenuate, or mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department 
Counsel. . ..” The applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable 
security decision. 
Under the  whole-person  concept,  the  administrative judge  must consider the  
totality of an  applicant’s conduct and   all  relevant circumstances   in light of the  nine  
adjudicative process factors in AG ¶ 2(d).  They are as follows:  
(1) the  nature, extent,  and seriousness of the  conduct;  
(2) the  cir cumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable 
participation;  
(3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;   
(4) the individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct;  
(5) the  extent to which participation is voluntary;  
(6) the  presence  or  absence  of rehabilitation  and  other permanent  
behavioral changes;  
(7) the  motivation for the conduct;   
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and   
(9) the likelihood  of continuation  or recurrence.  
Analysis  
Guideline  F:  Financial Considerations  
The security concern under this Guideline states, “failure to live within one’s 
means, satisfy debts, and meet financial obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack 
of judgment, or unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified 
or sensitive information.” (AG ¶ 18) 
Applicant’s history of financial problems triggers the application of AG ¶ 19(a), 
“inability to satisfy debts,” and AG ¶ 19(c), “a history of not meeting financial obligations.” 
The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 are potentially applicable: 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
             
             
        
           
           
   
 
 
 
 
       
          
 
 
 
       
    
 
     
 
            
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or occurred  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur and  does not  cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;  
(b) the  conditions  that resulted  in the  financial problem  were  largely  beyond  
the  person’s control (e.g.,  loss of employment,  a  business downturn,   
unexpected  medical emergency,  a  death, divorce, or separation, clear  
victimization  by predatory lending  practices, or identity  theft), and  the  
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
(c)  the  individual has received  or is receiving  financial counseling  for the  
problem  from  a  legitimate  and  credible  source,  such  as  a  non-profit  credit  
counseling  service, and  there are clear indications that the  problem  is being  
resolved  or is under control; and  
(d) the  individual initiated  and  is adhering  to  a  good-faith  effort to  repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debt.  
Applicant attributed his financial problems to his divorce in 2017 and to a COVID-
related job loss in 2020. Although these circumstances were beyond his control, he still 
has the burden of establishing that he acted responsibly, taking such steps as enrolling 
in financial counseling, developing a payment plan, communicating with his creditors, or 
making some other good-faith effort to resolve the debt. Applicant has provided no such 
evidence, despite first promising to do so more than two years ago during his March 2022 
investigative interview. 
Under these  circumstances, AG  ¶  20(b)  applies partially, with  respect to  
Applicant’s debt being   caused  by circumstances beyond  his control, but none  of the   
remaining  mitigating  conditions apply.  Applicant failed  to  mitigate  the  financial  
considerations security concern.  
Whole-Person Concept  
I considered the whole-person concept factors discussed above in my analysis of 
the disqualifying and mitigating conditions, and they do not warrant a favorable 
conclusion. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  F:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Against Applicant  Subparagraphs  1.a  –  1.o:       
 
4 
 
 
     
 
            
         
  
 
 
 
 
   
_____________________ 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent wit h the interests of national security to grant or continue Applicant’s 
eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Marc E. Curry 
Administrative Judge 
5 