 
 
 
                                                              
                         
          
           
             
 
 
    
  
          
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
     
  
 
 
        
        
          
             
  
 
          
        
       
            
            
 
 
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 23-02201 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: John B. Renehan, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
01/30/2025 
Decision 
DORSEY, Benjamin R., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not mitigate the financial considerations security concerns. Eligibility 
for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
On August 22, 2024, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline F (financial 
considerations). Applicant provided a response to the SOR (Answer) dated May 5, 2024. 
He requested a hearing before an administrative judge. The case was assigned to me on 
October 30, 2024. 
The hearing was convened as scheduled on January 6, 2025. At the hearing, I 
admitted Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 3 and Applicant Exhibits (AE) A through I 
without objection. At Applicant’s request, I left the record open until January 21, 2025, for 
the parties to provide post-hearing documents. Applicant timely provided AE J through O, 
which I admitted without objection. I received the transcript (Tr.) of the hearing on January 
13, 2025. 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
          
           
           
            
         
 
       
    
     
              
          
           
    
     
         
  
 
 
 
       
          
          
               
          
              
        
     
 
        
          
        
      
           
            
         
Findings of Fact 
Applicant is a 40-year-old employee of a government contractor for whom he has 
worked since 2010. He was married in 2004 and divorced in 2013 . He is engaged to be 
married again and resides with his fiancée. He has an 18-year-old child. He earned a 
bachelor’s degree in 2020. He was on active duty with the A rmy from 2003 until 2007, 
when he earned an honorable discharge. (Tr. 28-31; GE 1, 3; AE J, O) 
In the SOR, the Government alleged that Applicant owed delinquent federal taxes 
in the amount of $17,138 for the 2012 tax year (TY) (SOR ¶ 1.a). It alleged that he owed 
delinquent federal taxes in the amount of $4,694 for TY 2014 (SOR ¶ 1.b). Finally, it 
alleged that he owed state taxes to State A in the amount of $26,145 for TYs 2014 through 
2018 (SOR ¶ 1.c) . Applicant denied these allegations because he claimed that he had 
reduced the balance of his federal tax debt, and he had satisfied his state tax debt. While 
his claims regarding these reductions are accurate, as I will discuss below, the 
Government provided sufficient evidence that the balances it alleged Applicant owed 
were accurate when it issued the SOR. Therefore, the SOR allegations are establis hed. 
(SOR; Answer, GE 1-3, AE J, O) 
Applicant was deployed  overseas  to  a  war zone  for work from  2010  to  2011, and  
from  2013  to  2014. His employer contracted  with  a  large, well-known accounting  firm  
(Firm  A) to  help  Applicant and  other employees with  their  tax planning  and  income  tax  
filing. Based  upon  Firm  A’s advice,  Applicant adjusted  his  tax  withholdings  to  a  lesser  
amount, so  he  would  realize  more  income.  He  planned  to  use  Firm  A  to  file for a  foreign  
income  exclusion  that would offset these  reduced  withholdings  and  reduce  any income  
tax he  might owe.  However, because  of marital problems  and  a  contentious child-custody  
dispute  that  continued  until 2017, he  did not timely file his federal and  state  income  tax  
returns for several tax years.  This  failure  forfeited  his employer’s benefit of paying  for Firm  
A  to  file  his income  tax  returns and  the  foreign  income  exclusion.  (Tr. 22-27, 32-40, 44-
47, 59-64, 71, 76,  81-84; GE 1-3; AE J, O)   
Applicant’s failure to timely file his income tax returns was not alleged in the SOR, 
and I will not use it for disqualification purposes. However, I will use that information for 
mitigation purposes and in my whole-person analysis. Applicant could not afford to pay 
Firm A the $2,000 fee it required to file the foreign income exclusion, so, in 2019, he hired 
a less expensive accounting firm (Firm B) to file his late income tax returns. Applicant 
claimed Firm B was not conversant in the foreign income exclusion, so it did not claim the 
exclusion on his behalf, which resulted in the delinquent state and federal taxes alleged 
in the SOR. (Tr. 22-27, 32-40, 44-47, 59-64, 76, 81-84; GE 1-3; AE J, O) 
Beginning in about 2019, Applicant thought he was sufficiently financially sound to 
begin repaying his taxes. His employer was supplementing his income because he was 
working and living across the country in State B. This supplement allowed him to pay his 
financial obligations while living in State B, including his mortgage and child -support 
obligation in State A. Sometime in 2019, h e contacted the State A taxation authority to 
make a payment arrangement on his state tax indebtedness. He decided to pay his state 
tax debt before his federal tax debt because State A had already garnished his bank 
2 
 
 
 
                
         
         
       
          
       
            
           
         
      
  
      
           
         
     
       
           
          
       
        
       
 
 
 
 
           
         
           
             
              
account, and because Firm B told him State A was more difficult to work with than the 
Internal Revenue Service (IRS). He made a payment arrangement with State A of $450 
per month and made five or six of these monthly payments pursuant to that arrangement. 
He also cashed his $1,200 COVID-19 stimulus payment and paid that amount to State A. 
In 2019, he filed his federal income tax returns for TYs 201 2 through 2018. He filed his 
federal income tax returns for TYs 2020 through 2022 in about February 2024 , and he 
filed his federal income tax return for TY 2023 in May 2024. He claimed that he filed his 
federal income tax returns late for TYs 2020 through 2022 because of the COVID -19 
pandemic. He claimed has received a refund of about $1,000 to $2,000 every tax year 
since 2014. (Tr. 40-56, 59-64, 68, 72-76, 80-81; Answer; GE 1-3; AE A, D-H, J, M, O) 
In about April 2020, because of the COVID -19 pandemic, Applicant’s employer 
stopped supplementing his income for residing in State B. As he had a fiancée and had 
established a life in State B, he stayed there and paid his aforementioned financial 
obligations without the supplemental pay. This decision meant that he could not afford to 
repay his delinquent federal and state income taxes. He defaulted on his payment 
arrangement with State A. Because of the COVID-19 shutdown and restrictions, at some 
point, he felt as though he was trapped in State B. It was during this time that he fell 
behind on his child-support obligation that was not alleged in the SOR. However, in early 
2021, he resolved that delinquency through automated deductions from his paycheck and 
has remained current on that obligation. (Tr. 40-54, 75-76, 80-81; Answer; GE 1-3; AE K, 
M, O) 
Between  April 2020  and  early 2023, Applicant purchased  a  mobile  home  in  State  
B. He  entered  into  a  loan  modification  agreement  on  the  mortgage  on his real  property in  
State  A  to  keep  this  property  from  being  foreclosed  upon.  He claimed  these  processes  
further  delayed  his  ability to  address  his tax delinquencies  by  diverting  his limited  
resources. He  also claimed  he  was unable  to  sell  the  home  in State  A  while the  mortgage  
was  being  modified. In  about January or February 2023, Applicant  began  traveling  for  
work  consistently  and earned  a  significant per diem  again.  While  he  testified  that he  would  
have  resolved  his tax delinquencies  regardless of the  impact on  his security clearance,  
he  acknowledged  that this  impact  also  significantly  motivated  him.  In  February 2023,  he 
hired  a  tax resolution  service  (Firm  C)  to  help  him  resolve  his delinquent federal taxes.  
Firm  C eventually helped  him  negotiate  a  lower federal tax obligation  from  about  $21,000  
to  a  total of $6,603,  and  a  monthly payment  arrangement  with  the  IRS  of $255.  He has  
made  two  payments  pursuant  to  this  payment  arrangement and  intends to  continue  
paying  it until his federal tax delinquency is  resolved.  Given  his  payment arrangement,  
and  assuming  he  receives  a  tax  refund  for TY  2024, he  thinks he  will  have  his federal  
taxes  paid  off  by the  end  of  2025.  He  no  longer owes  federal taxes for TY  2014.  The  
aforementioned $6,603  balance  (less the two  payments of $255) is solely from TY  2012.  
(Tr. 54-69, 77, 80-81; GE  1-3; AE  A, D-H, J, K, L, O)  
Despite having engaged Firm C a year and a half earlier, Applicant’s payment 
arrangement with the IRS became effective in about October 2024, because his ability to 
pay it was contingent upon him selling his home in State A. He also had to save money 
and pay Firm C a total of about $3,500 over a few months before he could fully engage 
its services. In early 2024, he began the process of listing and selling his house in State 
3 
 
 
 
 
       
               
          
      
     
      
             
         
          
     
      
     
 
         
        
        
         
           
        
 
 
    
      
       
      
 
 
     
        
      
         
   
 
          
     
         
            
     
       
         
 
A. He traveled  to  State  A  to  take  these  steps.  He incurred  about  $6,000  in  additional 
credit-card debt in  the  process.  After one  sales contract  fell  through,  he  closed  the  sale  
of this home  in  November 2024, and  used  the  proceeds  to  pay the  state  taxes listed  in  
SOR ¶ 1.c in  December 2024.  (Tr. 67-72, 80-81, 90-92;  AE  B,  I, J, O)  
Applicant claimed that his financial situation has vastly improved. He sold his home 
in State A, he no longer has a custody dispute, and he is regularly earning per diem. After 
he sold the home in State A in November 2024, he saves about $600 more per month on 
mortgage payments alone. Other than his outstanding federal tax debt for TY 2012, he 
does not have any delinquent debts. He has about $3,400 in his bank accounts. He took 
out a loan for about $15,000 against his retirement savings account to pay the closing 
costs on the real property in State A. After paying those closing co sts, he used about 
$6,000 from that loan against his retirement account to satisfy a payday loan. After early 
2023, he paid off several other payday loans and credit cards. He only has balances on 
nondelinquent secured credit-card accounts with a combined total of about $ 5,000. He 
has about $1, 032 per month in surplus funds after he pays his expenses. He has not 
undergone financial counseling. (Tr. 75-91; GE 1-3; AE J, N, O) 
Applicant provided letters from friends and work colleagues attesting to his hard 
work in rebuilding his finances and paying his delinquent taxes. Some corroborated the 
challenges that led to his financial issues , as well as his resolution efforts. They believe 
that he is a trustworthy and reliable person who does well at work and shows good 
judgment. They note he is a mentor and a leader, and they believe that his financial issues 
are behind him. They all opined that he should retain his security clearance. (AE K) 
Policies  
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines (AG ), which became 
effective on June 8, 2017. 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number o f variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
4 
 
 
 
 
      
    
    
 
  
           
        
    
              
      
       
           
  
 
          
           
      
 
 
 
 
       
 
 
    
     
 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.14, the  Government  must present evidence  to  establish  
controverted  facts alleged  in the  SOR. Under Directive ¶  E3.1.15, the  applicant  is  
responsible  for presenting  “witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or  
mitigate  facts admitted  by the  applicant or proven  by Department Counsel.” The  applicant  
has the  ultimate  burden of persuasion  to  obtain  a favorable  security  decision.   
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline F, Financial Considerations  
The security concern for financial considerations is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to  live  within  one’s means, satisfy debts,  and  meet  financial  
obligations may indicate  poor self-control, lack of judgment,  or  
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise  
questions about an  individual’s reliability, trustworthiness,  and  ability to  
protect  classified  or  sensitive information.  Financial distress can  also be  
caused  or  exacerbated  by, and  thus can  be  a  possible  indicator of,  other  
issues of  personnel security  concern  such  as  excessive gambling, mental  
health  conditions, substance  misuse, or alcohol  abuse  or dependence.  An  
individual who  is financially overextended  is at  greater  risk of having  to  
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to  generate funds.  
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. The following is potentially applicable in this case: 
5 
 
 
 
 
       
        
          
   
 
      
    
 
 
  
 
          
          
  
 
       
       
         
     
        
         
         
  
  
          
        
         
       
          
            
               
       
(f)  failure to  file or fraudulently filing  annual Federal, state, or local income  
tax returns or failure to  pay annual Federal,  state, or local income  tax as  
required.  
Applicant owed delinquent federal taxes for TYs 2012 and 2014 in the amount of 
$17,138 and $ 4,694, respectively. He owed delinquent state taxes to State A for TY s 
2014 through 2018 in the amount of $26, 145. The above -referenced disqualifying 
condition is established. 
Conditions that could mitigate the financial considerations security concerns are 
provided under AG ¶ 20. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or occurred  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur and  does not  cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;   
(b) the  conditions  that resulted  in the  financial problem  were  largely  beyond  
the  person’s control (e.g.,  loss of employment,  a  business downturn,   
unexpected  medical emergency,  a  death,  divorce  or separation, clear  
victimization  by predatory lending  practices, or identity  theft), and  the  
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
(d) the  individual initiated  and  is adhering  to  a  good-faith  effort to  repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  and  
(g) the individual has made arrangements with the appropriate tax authority 
to file or pay the amount owed and is in compliance with those 
arrangements. 
Failure to comply with tax laws suggests that an applicant has a problem with 
abiding by well -established government rules and systems. Voluntary compliance with 
rules and systems is essential for protecting classified information. See, e.g., ISCR Case 
No. 16-01726 at 5 (App. Bd. Feb. 28, 2018). A person who fails repeatedly to fulfill his or 
her legal obligations, such as filing tax returns and paying taxes when due, does not 
demonstrate the high degree of good judgment and reliability required of those granted 
access to classified information. See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 17-01382 at 4 (App. Bd. May 
16, 2018). 
Applicant has the burden of proof to show evidence in mitigation. He began having 
tax delinquencies over a decade ago. With the exception of a briefly maintained payment 
arrangement with State A after a bank garnishment in 2019, his meaningful resolution of 
his tax delinquencies began in 2024. His mortgage on the real property in State A was in 
foreclosure, and he had to borrow money from his retirement account and incur additional 
credit-card debt to sell it, which shows that he was still in some financial distress . He 
continued to fail to timely file his income tax returns , which was the direct cause of his 
delinquent tax debt, until 2023 . Given these considerations, I do not find that his tax 
6 
 
 
 
        
   
 
       
     
          
               
               
          
     
       
        
 
 
             
         
        
    
         
  
 
        
         
          
       
           
       
   
 
 
 
 
 
       
       
failings were so long ago, infrequent, or happened under circumstances that they are 
unlikely to recur. 
Applicant has provided some evidence that his tax delinquencies arose because 
of his mar ital problems. However , for AG ¶ 20(b) to apply, he must also show that he 
acted responsibly under the circumstances. For AG ¶ 20(d) to apply, he must show that 
he acted in good fa ith. He did not file the income tax returns for the 2012 through 2018 
TYs that resulted in his delinquent taxes until 2019. He did not attempt to make a payment 
arrangement on his federal tax debt until 2023. While he first attempted to make a 
payment arrangement on his state tax debt in 2019, he did so only after having his bank 
account garnished. After defaulting on his payment arrangement for his delinquent state 
taxes in 2020 (again for reasons that were arguably beyond his control) , he did not 
attempt to address that debt again until early 2024. 
Applicant ultimately resolved his State A tax debt by selling a house that he could 
have sold years earlier, except that he was delinquent on that mortgage. Although failing 
to file his income tax returns was a major factor in causing his delinquent taxes, he then 
did not timely file his federal tax returns for TYs 2020 through 2022. For these reasons, I 
do not find that he acted responsibly under the circumstances or in good faith . AG ¶¶ 
20(b) and 20(d) do not apply. 
AG ¶ 20(g) partially applies. Applicant has satisfied his 2014 federal taxes , his 
2014 through 2018 state taxes, and is current on a payment arrangement that he made 
with the IRS for his 2012 federal taxes. However, for the reasons I enumerated in my 
mitigation analysis about the timing of his resolution efforts, and his additional failure to 
timely file his 2020 through 2022 federal income tax returns, the application of AG ¶ 20(g) 
is insufficient to remove my concerns regarding his judgment, trustworthiness, and 
reliability. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the  whole-person  concept,  the  administrative judge  must  evaluate  an  
applicant’s eligibility for a  security clearance  by considering  the  totality of the  applicant’s  
conduct and  all  relevant circumstances.  The  administrative  judge  should  consider the  
nine  adjudicative  process factors listed at AG  ¶ 2(d):  
(1) The  nature, extent,  and  seriousness of the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  
and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct;  
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
7 
 
 
 
         
       
       
         
             
   
       
  
 
      
      
   
 
 
        
    
 
     
 
  
 
 
 
          
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
consideration of the guidelin es and the whole -person concept. I have incorpor ated my 
comments under Guideline F in my whole -person analysis. I have also considered his 
military service and positive character references. Overall, while he had some reasonable 
excuses for why it took him so long to address his tax delinquencies, those explanations 
do not adequately justify the length of the delay and leave me with doubts about his 
judgment and reliability. His continued failure to timely file his income tax returns for TYs 
2020 until 2022 , despite the consequences of not timely filing income tax returns from 
2012 through 2018, reinforces my doubts. 
Overall, the r ecord evidence leaves me with questions and doubts about 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. I conclude Applicant did not 
mitigate the financial considerations security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  F:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a-1.c:  Against Applicant 
Conclusion 
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for 
a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Benjamin R. Dorsey 
Administrative Judge 
8 