 
 
 
 
                                                              
                             
          
           
             
 
 
    
  
       
   
  
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
     
 
 
 
     
      
        
      
       
         
  
 
          
            
       
        
          
     
        
         
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 23-02904 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Nicole A. Smith, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
02/06/2025 
Decision 
GARCIA, Candace Le’i, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not mitigate the criminal conduct security concern . Applicant’s 
eligibility for a security clearance is denied. 
Statement of the  Case  
On January 22, 2024 , the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing a security concern under Guideline J (criminal 
conduct). The action was taken under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; D OD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) implemented by 
DOD on June 8, 2017. 
Applicant submitted an undated response to the SOR (Answer) and elected to 
have h is case decided on the written record in lieu of a hearing . The Government’s 
written case was submitted on April 3, 2024. The Government’s supplemental written 
case was submitted on August 12, 2024. A complete copy of the file of relevant material 
(FORM) was provided to Applicant on August 1 4, 202 4, and he was afforded an 
opportunity to file objections and submit material to refute, extenuate, or mitigate the 
security concerns. Applicant received t he FORM on September 5, 2024. He did not 
submit a response . The case was assigned to me on December 6, 202 4. The 
1 
 
 
 
 
         
   
 
 
        
          
   
 
         
          
         
    
   
       
  
          
        
          
 
 
           
       
        
            
          
     
     
         
     
          
          
 
 
 
      
        
       
          
   
 
          
      
         
          
Government’s documents identified as Items 1 through 6 in its FORM are admitted in 
evidence without objection. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant admitted the sole SOR allegation his Answer. He is 30 years old. As of 
his January 2019 security clearance application (SCA), he was unmarried and he did 
not have any children. (Items 1-3) 
Applicant graduated from high school in 201 3. As of the date of his SCA, h e has 
worked as a warehouse identification production specialist for his employer, a DOD 
contractor, since November 2017 . He has never held a security clearance. As of the 
date of his SCA, he has lived with his parents since 1995. (Item 3) 
The SOR alleged that Applicant was charged in October 2021 with driving under 
the influence (DUI) of liquor with a blood alcohol content of .08 or more, 1st offense, and 
that the charge was still pending as of the date of the SOR . In his Answer and August 
2023 response to interrogatories, Applicant stated he was pulled over for an improper 
U-turn that turned into a DUI stop and he was awaiting a court trial scheduled for April 
2024. (Items 2, 4) 
State court records reflect Applicant was cited in state municipal court with two 
counts of offenses categor ized under “Traffic,” with count 1 for “Traffic -Improper U -
Turn,” and count 2 for “DUI Liquor/Drugs/Vapors 1st.” (Item 5) In April 2024, the first 
count was dismissed and Applicant pled guilty to an amended count 2 of reckless 
driving. (Item 6) He was placed on unsupervised probation, ordered to attend traffic 
survival school and a Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) victim impact panel , and 
fined approximately $714. As of May 2024, Applicant was compliant with the court’s 
mandate for traffic survival school and MADD victim impact panel, and he had paid at 
least $550 in fines as of July 2024. The record does not contain any information about 
the length of his unsupervised probation and whether he has completed it and paid all 
necessary fines. (Items 5-6) Applicant did not respond to the FORM, so no more recent 
information is available. 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider t he adjudicative guidelines . In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, t he adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are use d in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing t he 
complexities of human behavior, t hese guidelines are applied in conjunction with t he 
factors listed in t he adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial , and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 
2 
 
 
 
 
      
       
         
  
 
       
    
          
         
           
       
      
        
        
    
 
          
          
     
            
     
        
         
    
 
 
       
               
       
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
         
  
 
2(a), the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables kno wn as 
the “whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, 
reliable information about t he person, past and present, favorable and un favorable, in 
making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for access to 
classified information will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this 
decision, I have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical , and based 
on t he evidence contained in t he record. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government 
must present evidence to establish controverted facts alleged in t he SOR. Under 
Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is responsible for presenting witnesses and ot her 
evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven 
by Department Counsel , and has t he ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a 
favorable security decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with t he Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. T he 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk that an applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation as to potential, rat her than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Section 7 of Exec . Or. 10865 provides that decisions shall be “in terms of t he 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to t he loyalty of t he 
applicant concerned.” See also Exec. Or. 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple 
prerequisites for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline J, Criminal Conduct  
The security concern for criminal conduct is set out in AG ¶ 30: 
Criminal activity creates doubt about a person’s judgment, reliability, and  
trustworthiness. By its   very nature, it   calls into  question  a  person’s  ability  
or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and  regulations.  
The guideline notes conditions that could raise security concerns under AG ¶ 31. 
The disqualifying conditions potentially applicable in this case include: 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
        
         
    
 
      
 
 
 
 
        
         
   
           
             
          
       
 
         
      
        
   
 
(b) evidence  (including, but not limited  to, a  credible  allegation, an  
admission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of  
whether the individual was formally charged,  prosecuted, or convicted.  
Applicant pled guilty to reckless driving in in April 2024. He was placed on 
unsupervised probation, ordered to attend traffic survival school and a MADD victim 
impact panel, and fined approximately $714. AG ¶ 31(b) is applicable. 
AG ¶ 32 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. The following 
are potentially applicable: 
(a) so  much  time  has elapsed  since  the  criminal behavior  happened, or it  
happened  under such  unusual circumstances, that it  is unlikely to  recur 
and  does  not cast  doubt on  the  individual’s  reliability, trustworthiness, or   
good judgment; and  
(d) there is evidence  of successful rehabilitation; including, but not limited  
to, the  passage  of time  without recurrence  of criminal activity, restitution,  
compliance  with  the  terms of parole or probation, job  training  or  higher  
education, good  employment record, or constructive  community  
involvement.  
In May 2024, Applicant was compliant with the court’s mandate that he attend 
traffic survival school and a MADD victim impact panel, and he had paid at least $550 in 
fines as of July 2024. However, the record does not contain any information about the 
length of his unsupervised probation and whether he has completed it and paid all 
necessary fines. Since he did not respond to the FORM, no more recent information is 
available. While it is unclear if he is or remains on probation now, the offense, while 
isolated, is also recent and therefore not mitigated. Applicant did not meet his burden 
and AG ¶¶ 32(a) and 32(d) are not established. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under t he whole-person concept, t he administrative j udge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all t he circumstances. The administrative judge should consider t he nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) t he  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) t he  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of t he  conduct; (4) t he  
individual’s age  and  maturity at t he  time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) t he  presence  or absence  of  
rehabilitation  and  other permanent  behavioral changes;  (7) the  motivation  
for t he  conduct;  (8) t he  potential  for pressure, coercion,  exploitation, or  
duress;  and (9) the  likelihood  of continuation  or recurrence.  
4 
 
 
 
 
       
       
        
       
        
             
        
          
          
     
      
 
 
      
    
 
     
 
     
 
 
             
     
    
 
 
 
      
 
Under AG ¶ 2( c), the ultimate determination of w hether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of t he guidelines and t he whole-person concept. I considered t he 
potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all t he facts and 
circumstances surrounding this case. Since Applicant elected to have his case decided 
on the written record in lieu of a hearing and then did not respond to the Government’s 
FORM, I could not assess his credibility and demeanor, and I did not have the 
opportunity to ask him questions and develop a full record as to his rehabilitation and 
reform. Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts about 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance . For all t hese reasons, I 
conclude that Applicant has not mitigated the criminal conduct security concern. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on t he allegations set forth in t he SOR, 
as required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  J:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  1.a:  Against Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of t he circumstances presented by t he record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant Applicant eligibility for a 
security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Candace Le’i Garcia 
Administrative Judge 
5 