 
                                                
 
                                                 
                                                                                                                    
          
           
             
 
 
 
 
    
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
    
  
 
 
     
 
 
   
   
   
    
  
 
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPART
MENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of:   )  
        )  
    )  ISCR Case  No. 23-02542   
   )   
   )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance    )  
 
Appearances  
For Government: Andrew Henderson, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Appellant: Pro se 
05/21/2025 
Decision 
GLENDON, John Bayard, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not mitigate the security concerns raised under either Guideline F 
(Financial Considerations) or Guideline E (Personal Conduct). National security eligibility 
for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a Questionnaire for National Security Positions on April 25, 
2023 (Ques tionnaire). On December 11, 202 3, the Defense Counterintelligence and 
Security Agency (DCSA) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing 
security concerns under Guidelines F and E. The action was taken under Executive Order 
10865, Safeguarding Classified Information Within Industry (February 20, 1960), as 
amended; Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel 
Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the 
adjudicative guidelines (AG) effective within DoD after June 8, 2017. 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
    
  
  
   
     
    
 
 
  
     
  
 
 
        
 
    
    
   
 
    
  
 
   
  
  
 
 
    
  
  
 
     
 
   
 
   
   
   
   
Applicant responded to the SOR allegations on February 27, 2024 (Answer) and 
requested a hearing before an administrative judge from the Defense Office of Hearings 
and Appeals (DOHA). Department Counsel was prepared to proceed on December 20, 
2024. The case was assigned to me on January 15, 202 5. The case was initially 
scheduled to be heard via Microsoft Teams video teleconference on February 28, 2025. 
Applicant failed to appear as scheduled, and I adjourned the hearing. He advised 
Department Counsel that he was unavailable on the initial hearing date but would be 
available for a hearing on April 16, 2025. I res cheduled the hearing for that date, and 
DOHA issued an Amended Notice of Hearing on February 28, 2025. 
I convened the hearing as rescheduled. Department Counsel offered six 
documents marked as Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 6 , which I admitted without 
objection. Applicant testified but did not submit any documents. DOHA received the 
transcript of the hearing (Tr.) on April 23, 2025. (Tr. at 10.) 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 41 years old. He has a high school diploma and has taken some 
college courses. He has worked for a U.S. Government contractor since 2017. He 
presently works as a repair mechanic. Applicant is seeking national security eligibility and 
a security clearance for the first time. He is married and has three children, ages 19, 18, 
and 12. (Tr. at 12-15, 30; GE 1 at 5, 7-8, 13-14, 16-17, 24.) 
The Government alleged in the SOR that Applicant is ineligible for a security 
clearance because he has four delinquent debts totaling about $34,000. In the Answer, 
he admitted each of the SOR allegations and provided some explanations. The SOR also 
alleged that he deliberately provided false information about his financial condition by 
failing to disclose the four debts in response to two questions in the Questionnaire. I find 
the following facts developed at the hearing and detailed in the documentary record: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline  F (Financial Considerations)  
SOR ¶ 1.a. Vehicle Loan Delinquency Charged Off in the Amount of $8,383. 
In the Answer, Applicant claimed that he checked his credit report prior to filling out the 
Questionnaire, and this debt was not on his report. He claimed the debt was settled and 
closed. This debt was for the balance due on a vehicle loan after the vehic le was 
repossessed. A credit report offered by the Government confirmed that the debt had been 
settled in 2024. He resolved this debt in response to receiving the SOR. (Tr. at 19-20; GE 
3 at 2; GE 4 at 1.) 
SOR ¶ 1.b. Debt Placed for Collection in the Amount of $3,544. In the Answer, 
Applicant claimed this debt did not appear on his credit report. This debt was for a home 
security system he purchased, and the debt was to be paid over time. Applicant 
acknowledged that this debt is unpaid and that he had not made any attempts to resolve 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
    
   
     
      
   
     
 
   
    
 
  
      
 
     
 
  
   
   
    
   
 
    
 
   
  
    
 
  
       
   
    
  
 
    
  
 
 
it. He could not provide a reason at the hearing as to why he had not contacted the 
collection agency to seek a resolution. (Tr. at 21-23; GE 3 at 2.) 
SOR ¶ 1.c. Insurance Debt Placed for Collection in the Amount of $894. In the 
Answer, Applicant acknowledged the debt was on his credit report at the time of his July 
11, 2023 security interview. He wrote that he was getting in contact with the creditor and 
working on settling this debt. At the hearing, Applicant testified that he had not made any 
attempt to resolve this debt. He said, “I just haven’t gotten to it.” He wants to settle it by 
the end of 2025. (Tr. at 23-24; GE 3 at 3; GE 4 at 2.) 
SOR ¶ 1.d. Vehicle Loan Delinquency Charged Off in the Amount of $21,218.
In the Answer, Applicant admitted that he co-signed a loan for a vehicle purchased by his 
mother and claimed he was working on settling the debt. He testified that his mother 
returned the truck to the seller “years ago” when she could no longer pay for it . He 
believes that the debt arose about ten years ago. (Tr. at 24-25; GE 3 at 3.) 
The Government’s most recent credit report in the record (GE 4) reflects two 
delinquent debts that have been added to Applicant’s credit since the issuance of the 
SOR in December 2023. The Government did not seek to amend the SOR by adding 
these debts as additional allegations under Guideline F. One of the new debts is for a 
credit-card account in the amount of $1,164. The second is also a credit-card account in 
the amount of $1,181. Applicant testified that he intends to work on both accounts to 
resolve them. (Tr. at 25-28; GE 4 at 2-3.) 
Applicant has not created a budget of his family income and expenses to help him 
manage his personal finances. Also, he has not sought financial counseling services. 
Applicant’s wife is employed. Together, their net monthly income is about $8,000. They 
pays rent of $2,200 per month and car payments of $1,100 per month. His car insurance 
costs $800 per month. (Tr. at 28-31.) 
Applicant filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy relief in 2011. He received a discharge of 
his debts totaling about $80,000. He testified that he accrued these debts when he was 
young and was overspending. He took a mandatory class about personal financial 
management in connection with the bankruptcy. (Tr. at 17, 28, 31.) 
Paragraph 2,  Guideline E (Personal Conduct)  
SOR ¶ 2.a. Falsification of Responses in the Questionnaire. Applicant 
answered “No” to the following question in Section 26 of the Questionnaire despite having 
the four past-due debts listed in paragraph 1 of the SOR: 
Have any  of the following happened to you? . . .  In the past seven (7)  
years, you had bills or debts turned over to a collection agency? [and]  in 
the past seven (7) years, you had any account or credit card suspended,  
charged off, or cancelled for  failing to pay  as agreed? (Include financial  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
   
  
      
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
  
  
   
    
obligations for which you were the sole debtor, as well as those for which 
you were a cosigner  or guarantor).    
Applicant claimed that he did not list the four SOR debts because he thought they 
were “past the seven-year” timeframe of the question. He testified that he reviewed his 
credit report before answering “No” on the April 25, 2023 Questionnaire. He claimed that 
none of the SOR debts appeared on the credit report he reviewed. The Government’s 
May 23, 2023 credit report lists each of the four SOR debts as delinquent. Applicant 
denied that he was intentionally trying to hide information about these debts from DOD 
by not disclosing the debts on the Questionnaire. (Tr. at 18-19, 21, 33; GE 3 at 2-3.)  
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for national security eligibility, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines (AG) list 
potentially disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in 
evaluating an applicant’s national security eligibility. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. The entire 
process is a conscientious scrutiny of applicable guidelines in the context of a number of 
variables known as the whole- person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires, “Any doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. I have not drawn inferences based on mere speculation or 
conjecture. 
Directive ¶ E3.1.14, requires the Government to present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, “The applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel, and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable clearance decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants national 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
    
        
 
  
   
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
  
 
      
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
      
   
security eligibility. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk the 
applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as 
to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified or sensitive information. 
Finally, as emphasized in Section 7 of Executive Order 10865, “Any determination under 
this order adverse to an applicant shall be a determination in terms of the national interest 
and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” 
See also Executive Order 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information.) 
Analysis  
Paragraph 1,  Guideline  F (Financial Considerations)  
The security concerns relating to the guideline for financial considerations are set 
out in AG ¶ 18, which reads in pertinent part: 
Failure to live within one’s means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
AG ¶ 19 describes three conditions that could raise security concerns and may 
be disqualifying in this case: 
(a) i
nability to satisfy  debts;  
(c)  a hi story of not  meeting financial  obligations; and  
(e) consistent spending beyond one’s means  or  frivolous  or irresponsible  
spending, which may  be indicated by excessive indebtedness, significant  
negative cash flow, a  history of late payments or  of non-payment, or other  
negative financial indicators.  
The G
overnment’s credit reports in the record, Applicant’s admissions in the 
Answer, and his testimony at the hearing established that the SOR debts remain 
delinquent, with the exception of the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a. Other evidence 
established Applicant’s history of overspending and not being able to pay his debts. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
     
 
  
     
  
 
     
     
   
 
      
    
 
 
 
 
Accordingly, the above potentially disqualifying conditions are applicable. The burden, 
therefore, shifts to Applicant to mitigate security concerns under Guideline F. 
The guideline includes the following five conditions in AG ¶ 20 that c an mitigate 
security concerns arising from financial difficulties: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
und
er such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good judgment;   
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial  pr oblem were largely beyond  
the person’s control  (e.g., loss of employment, a business  downturn,  
unexpected medical emergency, or a death, divorce or separation, clear  
victimization by  predatory  lending practices, or identity theft), and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;   
(c) the individual  has  received or is receiving financial counseling for the  
problem from  a legitimate and credible source, such as a non- profit credit  
counseling service,  and there are clear indications that the problem is being  
resolved or is under control;   
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- f aith effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  and  
(e) the individual has  a r easonable basis to  dispute the legitimacy  of the 
past-due debt which is  the cause of the problem and provides documented  
proof to substantiate the basis of  the dispute or provides evidence of  actions  
to resolve the issue.   
AG ¶ 2
0(a) has not been established. Applicant has shown a consistent pattern of 
incurring debts that he cannot pay. The pattern extends beyond the SOR debts to the 
debts discharged in Applicant’s 2011 Chapter 7 bankruptcy and up to the present with 
two new debts arising after the issuance of the SOR. The unresolved SOR debts cast 
doubt on his current reliability, trustworthiness, and judgment. 
The facts of this case do not support the application of the any of the remaining 
four mitigating conditions quoted above. None of the SOR debts arose out of 
circumstances beyond Applicant’s control. He has not sought out any financial 
counseling, and there is no indication that the debts are under control. Lastly, Applicant 
has not initiated a good- faith effort to resolve his debts, and he does not dispute any of 
the unpaid debts. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
    
 
 
 
     
  
  
  
   
    
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
Paragraph 2,  Guideline E  (Personal Conduct)   
The security concerns relating to the guideline for personal conduct are set out in 
AG ¶ 15, which states: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual ’s reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to 
cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes. 
AG ¶ 16 describes the following condition that may raise security concerns and 
potentially be disqualifying in this case: 
(a) deliberate omission, concealment,  or falsification of relevant facts from  
any personnel  security questionnaire, personal  history  statement,  or similar  
form  used to conduct investigations, determine employment qualifications,  
award benefits or  status, determine national security eligibility or  
trustworthiness, or  award fiduciary responsibilities.  
The record evidence does not establish the allegation at SOR ¶ 2.a that Applicant 
deliberately omitted in the Questionnaire the delinquent debts set forth in paragraph 1 of 
the SOR. He testified that when he completed the Questionnaire, he did not believe that 
any of his debts had been turned over to a collection agency or charged off within the 
prior seven years. His testimony was credible and was supported by his general lack of 
awareness of and control over his financial situation. 
Whole-Person Concept   
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for national security eligibility by considering the totality of the 
applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should 
consider the nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.   
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
      
 
   
 
   
   
  
   
 
 
      
  
 
    
   
        
     
 
    
   
      
        
 
     
   
 
                                               
 
 
 
 
  
 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant national security eligibility 
for a security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the above whole-person factors and the potentially disqualifying and 
mitigating conditions in light of all pertinent facts and circumstances surrounding this 
case. Applicant’s lack of control over his financial situation borders on indifference or 
apathy and does not meet the national security requirements of responsibility and 
maturity. Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts as to 
Applicant’s present suitability for national security eligibility and a security clearance. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by ¶ E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  Guideline F:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph 1.a:  
  For A
pplicant 
Subparagraphs  1.b through 1.d:  Against Applicant 
Paragraph 2, Guideline E:   FO
R APPLICANT 
Subparagraph 2.a:   For
 Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant national security eligibility. 
Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
JOHN BAYARD GLENDON 
Administrative Judge 
8 