 
 
                                                              
 
 
                                                                                                                    
          
           
             
 
 
 
 
  
  
                
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
    
    
 
 
 
    
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEP
ARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 23-02713 
Appearances  
For Government:   
Tara Karoian, Esquire, Department Counsel  
For Applicant: 
Guy L. Womack, Esquire, Applicant’s Counsel 
08/18/2025 
Decision 
CEFOLA, Richard A., Administrative Judge: 
Statement  of the Case  
On June 27, 2024, in accordance with DoD Directive 5220.6, as amended 
(Directive), the Department of Defense issued Applicant a Statement of Reasons (SOR) 
alleging facts that raise security concerns under Guideline D. The SOR further informed 
Applicant that, based on information available to the government, DoD adjudicators could 
not make the preliminary affirmative finding it is clearly consistent with the national interest 
to grant or continue Applicant’s security clearance. 
Applicant answered the SOR on August 16, 2024, and requested a hearing before 
an administrative judge. (Answer.) The case was assigned to me on June 30, 2025. The 
Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a notice of hearing on July 2, 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
       
 
 
 
 
 
       
    
     
 
   
     
      
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
  
      
   
 
2025, scheduling the hearing for August 5, 2025. T he hearing was convened as 
scheduled. The Government offered Exhibi ts (GXs) 1 through 3, which were admitted 
without objection. Applicant testified on his own behalf. The Applicant offered one exhibit, 
Applicant Exhibit (AppX) A, which was admitted without objection. The record then closed, 
upon the completion of the hearing. DOHA received the transcript of the hearing (TR) on 
August 15, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant admitted the allegation in SOR ¶1a, but he vehemently denies the 
underlying basis for the allegation. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, 
exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. 
Applicant is a 28-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been 
employed with the defense contractor since March of 2023. Applicant is not married, and 
has no children. (GX 1 at pages 5, 11 and 23.) 
Guideline D, Sexual  Behavior  
1.a.  In September of  2017, Applicant was charged with  the  sexual assault  of an  
older,  female airman.  The alleged assault  occurred in May of  2016, when he was  19-
years-old  teenager, and more than a year prior to the female airman’s ,  July  2017,  
complaint.  During the period from May 2016 to July 2017,  the two  airmen  maintained a 
friendly  social and working relationship.  Applicant has always  maintained his innocence  
and avers that the ir  sexual intercourse was  consensual.  The very detailed  cross-
examination by Department Counsel  supports  this  conclusion.  He  was  told by  his military  
counsel that  his chance of being acquitted  was  70%  versus a 30%  chance of being 
convicted.  However, after  a four-hour, high- pressured  consultation with his  military  
counsel’s paralegal, Applicant chose to accept  a discharge Under  Other Than Honorable  
Conditions  in lieu of  trial by  court-martial.  (TR at page 1 6 line 5 to page 6 0 line 9, GX  1 at 
page 21, and Answer  at page 14~17.)  
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant ’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are useful in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
   
 
      
   
 
 
 
   
    
 
  
  
 
       
      
    
      
   
 
   
  
   
  
    
      
     
   
  
    
    
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The administrative 
judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. 
According to AG ¶ 2(a), the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of 
variables known as the whole- person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. Likewise, I have avoided drawing inferences grounded on mere 
speculation or conjecture. 
Directive ¶ E3.1.14, requires the Government to present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel , and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable clearance decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as 
to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of Executive Order 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in 
terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of 
the applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple 
prerequisites for access to classified or sensitive information). 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
    
 
 
       
    
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis 
Guideline D, Sexual  Be
 havior  
The sec
urity concern relating to the guideline for Sexual Behavior is set out in AG 
¶ 12: 
Sexual behavior that involves a criminal offense; reflects a lack of judgment 
or discretion; or may subject the individual to undue influence of coercion, 
exploitation, or duress. These issues, together or individually, may raise 
questions about an individual's judgment, reliability, trustworthiness, and 
ability to protect classified or sensitive information. Sexual behavior 
includes conduct occurring in person or via audio, visual, electronic, or 
written transmission. No adverse inference concerning the standards in this 
Guideline may be raised solely on the basis of the sexual orientation of the 
individual. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 13. One is potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) sexual behavior of  a criminal nature, whether or not  the individual has  
been prosecuted.  
In September of 2017, Applicant was charged with a sexual assault that allegedly 
occurred in May of 2016, more than nine years ago. He chose to accept a less than 
honorable discharge in lieu of a court -martial. The evidence is sufficient to raise this 
disqualifying condition. 
AG ¶ 14 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. I considered 
all of the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 including: 
(a) the behavior occurred prior to or  duri
 ng  adolescence and there is no 
evidence of subsequent conduct of a similar nature;  and  
(b) the sexual behavior happened so long ago, so infrequently,  or und er  
such unusual  circumstances,  that it is unlikely to recur and does not cast  
doubt on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or judgment.  
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
       
      
    
   
 
 
   
    
       
     
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
   
   
     
 
   
     
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
Both above mitigating conditions apply. I am not convinced that Applicant’s one-
time, sexual behavior was improper. He has always maintained his innocence. Applicant’s 
detailed testimony on cross -examination supports this conclusion. Furthermore, it 
occurred when he was a teenager, with an older female, more than nine years ago. 
Sexual Behavior is found for Applicant. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; ( 5) the  extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2( c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a security 
clearance must be an overall common-sense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guideline D in my whole -person analysis. Some of the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) were 
addressed under those guidelines, but some warrant additional comment. 
Applicant is well respected both in his community and in the workplace. (Answer 
at pages 9~13, and AppX A.) Overall, the record evidence leaves me without questions 
or doubts as to Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. For all these 
reasons, I conclude Applicant mitigated the sexual behavior security concern. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
    
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
        
      
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by ¶ E3.1.25 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  G
 uideline D:   FOR  APPLICANT  
Subparagraph  1.a:   For  Applicant  
Conclusion  
In l
ight of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security clearance. 
Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Richard A. Cefola 
Administrative Judge 
6 