 
 
 
                                                              
                             
          
           
             
 
    
  
       
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
     
   
 
 
      
      
          
  
 
            
        
      
              
  
 
 
 
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 23-02716 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Dan O’Reilley, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Alan V. Edmunds, Esq. 
04/10/2025 
Decision 
LOUGHRAN, Edward W., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant mitigated the security concerns under H ( drug involvement and 
substance misuse). Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Statement  of the Case  
On February 12, 2024, the Department of Defense (DoD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline H. Applicant 
responded to the SOR on April 18, 2024, and requested a hearing before an 
administrative judge. 
The case was assigned to me on November 21, 2024. The hearing convened as 
scheduled on February 10, 2025. Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 3 were admitted 
in evidence without objection. Applicant testified and submitted Appli cant Exhibits (AE) 
M and N (AE A through L were attached to the response to the SOR), which were 
admitted without objection. 
 
 
 
 
           
      
     
        
  
 
       
          
         
    
    
  
 
      
              
           
       
       
           
       
        
   
 
       
       
        
        
  
 
       
      
            
         
 
 
       
        
          
    
    
      
 
 
 
Findings of Fact 
Applicant is a 28 -year-old employee of a defense contractor. She served on 
active duty in the U.S. military from 2019 until she was discharged under honorable 
conditions (general) for misconduct (drug abuse) in November 2022. She has a 
bachelor’s degree. She has never married, and she has no children. (Transcript (Tr.) at 
10-11; GE 1, 3; AE D) 
Applicant held a security clearance in the military. She did not have access to 
classified information, but as a financial analyst, she had access to personally 
identifiable information (PII). She suffered from anxiety in the military and was 
diagnosed with unspecified anxiety disorder for her Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) 
disability claim. Her VA disability rating is 50%. (Tr. at 14 -15, 20; Applicant’s response 
to SOR; AE E, G, K) 
Applicant was stationed in 2020 in a state where medical and recreational 
marijuana possession and use did not violate state law. In late 2020, as a means of 
dealing with her anxiety and loneliness brought on by the COVID -19 pandemic, she 
purchased about one to two tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) -infused drinks from a 
dispensary on about three occasions and drank them. (Tr. at 12 -15, 23-30; Applicant’s 
response to SOR; GE 2, 3) While it is not 100% clear from the record, there is sufficient 
evidence for a finding that what she purchased and consumed was delta -9 
tetrahydrocannabinol (THC-9 or delta-9 THC), which is the THC that has been identified 
as “the active ingredient in marijuana” for decades. 
Applicant deployed from about July 2021 to January 2022. When she returned, 
her relationship with her boyfriend ended. She felt sad in addition to her experiencing 
anxiety and loneliness. In about February 2022, she purchased one to three “joints” of 
marijuana from a dispensary and smoked them by herself. (Tr. at 30 -32; Applicant’s 
response to SOR; GE 2, 3) 
Applicant was administered a urinalysis drug test in July 2022. Her urine sample 
tested positive for tetrahydrocannabinol -8 (THC -8 or delta-8 THC ). (Tr. at 11, 16, 39; 
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2, 3; AE F) Delta-8 THC is not to be confused with 
delta-9 THC. The Food and Drug Administration provides the following information 
about delta-8 THC: 
Delta-8 tetrahydrocannabinol, also known as delta -8 THC, is a 
psychoactive substance found in the Cannabis sativa plant, of which 
marijuana and hemp are two varieties. Delta -8 THC is one of over 100 
cannabinoids produced naturally by the cannabis plant but is not found in 
significant amounts in the cannabis plant. As a result, concentrated 
amounts of delta -8 THC are typically manufactured from hemp -derived 
cannabidiol (CBD). https://www.fda.gov/consumers/consumer-updates/5-
things-know-about-delta-8-tetrahydrocannabinol-delta-8-thc. 
2 
 
 
         
      
       
  
 
        
         
   
           
      
       
           
          
  
 
        
       
             
        
      
 
 
       
         
           
        
  
 
      
           
             
         
          
       
 
 
     
       
      
            
      
  
 
     
       
           
The legality of delta-8 THC is murky, with arguments on both sides on whether it 
is a federally controlled substance. For this decision, a determination whether it is a 
federally controlled substance is unnecessary because it was banned along with other 
CBDs by the military. 
Applicant waived her right to remain silent and was interviewed by military 
investigators. She admitted her illegal use of the THC -infused tea in 2020 and her 
marijuana use in February 2022. She denied intentionally using delta-8 THC. She vaped 
nicotine, and she used another person’s vape pen. She theorized that she may have 
inadvertently ingested delta -8 THC. She has consistently maintained throughout the 
security clearance process that she did not intentionally use delta -8 THC. She added 
that another possibility is that she may have accidently bought and used a delta -8 THC 
vape cartridge from the smoke shop where she bought her nicotine cartridges. (Tr. at 
18, 32-38; Applicant’s response to SOR; AE K) 
Applicant was disciplined at nonjudicial punishment under Article 15 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), for failure to obey an order or regulation under 
Article 92 of the UCMJ for the use of delta -8 THC, and wrongful use of a controlled 
substance under Article 112a for her marijuana use. She was reduced from pay grade 
E-4 to E -3. She was administratively discharged in November 2022. (Tr. at 11, 39; AE 
D, K) 
Applicant started a civilian job in November 2022, shortly after her discharge 
from the military. She traveled to her hometown for Thanksgiving. While there, she went 
to a neighboring state where marijuana is legal under state law , and she or her friend 
purchased marijuana. She smoked the marijuana with her friend. (Tr. at 40 -41; 
Applicant’s response to SOR) 
Applicant submitted a Questionnaire for Nation al Security Positions (SF 86) in 
January 2023. She reported that she was separated from the military after a failed drug 
test. She reported that she used THC “a couple of times to help with stress and anxiety” 
between December 2020 and July 2022. She added “I do not intend on using THC in 
the future because there are other ways to cope, and I do not want [to] ruin my future 
any more than I already have. My career and my life are too important to me.” She did 
not report her marijuana use in November 2022. (Tr. at 42-44; GE 1) 
Applicant was interviewed for her background investigation in June 2023. She 
fully discussed her marijuana use as discussed above, including her use in November 
2022. She denied knowingly using delta -8 THC. She could not answer why the 
November 2022 use was not reported on her SF 86. Falsification of the SF 86 was not 
alleged in the SOR, and Applicant credibly testified that she did not intentionally provide 
false information on it. (Tr. at 42-44; GE 3) 
Applicant expressed remorse for her illegal drug use. She receives therapy for 
her anxiety disorder, and she has adopted other means to cope. She does not intend to 
use marijuana again. She passed drug tests administered in March and June 2024, and 
3 
 
 
         
     
 
 
      
      
        
     
  
 
 
    
     
       
      
 
 
     
        
       
         
   
 
          
    
       
        
          
     
     
 
 
      
    
    
 
        
       
       
     
     
 
           
          
     
she signed a statement of intent to abstain from all drug involvement and substance 
misuse, acknowledging that any future involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation 
of national security eligibility. (Tr. at 16-22, 45-46; AE A-C, M) 
Applicant submitted documents and letters attesting to her excellent job 
performance and strong moral character. The authors praised h er trustworthiness, 
positive attitude, willingness to take care of others, ethical standards, honesty, reliability, 
leadership, dependability, maturity, dedication, decorum, compassion, work ethic, and 
integrity. (AE H-K, N) 
Policies  
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 196 0), as amended; DoD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines (AG ), which became 
effective on June 8, 2017. 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and common sense decision. According 
to AG ¶ 2(c), the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number o f variables 
known as the “whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all 
available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, 
or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel .” The 
applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The 
4 
 
 
             
     
       
         
     
 
 
          
               
       
  
 
 
 
         
   
  
  
     
    
 
  
 
 
 
 
        
  
 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation of potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline H, Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse  
The security concern for drug involvement and substance misuse is set out in AG 
¶ 24: 
The  illegal use  of controlled  substances,  to  include  the  misuse  of  
prescription  and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances 
that  cause  physical or mental  impairment  or are  used  in a  manner  
inconsistent with  their  intended  purpose  can  raise  questions  about an  
individual’s reliability and  trustworthiness, both  because  such  behavior  
may lead  to  physical or psychological impairment and  because  it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or  willingness to comply with laws, rules,  
and  regulations. Controlled  substance  means any “controlled  substance” 
as defined  in  21  U.S.C. 802. Substance  misuse  is the  generic term  
adopted in this guideline to  describe any of the behaviors listed above.  
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 25. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) any substance  misuse  (see above  definition);  
(b) testing positive for an illegal drug;   
(c)  illegal possession  of a  co ntrolled  substance, including  cultivation,  
processing, manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession  of  
drug paraphernalia; and   
(f) any illegal drug use while granted access to classified information or 
holding a sensitive position. 
5 
 
 
 
  
        
 
 
 
   
     
 
 
 
On  October 25, 2014, the Director of National Intelligence (the  Security Executive  
Agent (SecEA))  issued  DNI Memorandum  ES  2014-00674, “Adherence  to  Federal Laws  
Prohibiting Marijuana  Use,” which  states:  
[C]hanges  to  state  laws and  the  laws of  the  District of Columbia pertaining  
to  marijuana  use  do  not alter the  existing  National Security Adjudicative  
Guidelines  .  . . .   An  individual’s disregard  of  federal law  pertaining  to  the  
use, sale, or manufacture of marijuana  remains adjudicatively relevant in  
national security determinations. As always,  adjudicative  authorities are 
expected  to  evaluate  claimed  or developed  use  of,  or involvement with,  
marijuana  using  the  current adjudicative criteria.  The adjudicative  authority  
must  determine  if  the  use  of,  or  involvement with, marijuana  raises  
questions about the   individual’s judgment,  reliability, trustworthiness, and   
willingness to  comply  with  law, rules, and  regulations, including  federal  
laws, when  making  eligibility decisions of  persons proposed  for, or 
occupying, sensitive national security positions.  
On December 21, 2021, t he SecEA promulgated clarifying guidance concerning 
marijuana-related issues in security clearance adjudications. It states in pertinent part: 
[Federal]  agencies are  instructed  that  prior recreational marijuana  use  by  
an  individual may  be  relevant to  adjudications but not  determinative. The  
SecEA  has provided  direction  in [the  adjudicative  guidelines] to  agencies  
that requires them  to  use  a  “whole-person  concept.” This requires   
adjudicators to  carefully weigh  a  number of variables in an  individual’s life  
to  determine  whether that individual’s behavior raises a  security concern, if  
at all,  and  whether that  concern has been mitigated  such that the  individual  
may  now  receive  a  favorable  adjudicative  determination.  Relevant  
mitigations include,  but are not limited  to, frequency of use  and  whether  
the  individual can  demonstrate  that  future use  is unlikely to  recur, including  
by signing  an  attestation  or other such  appropriate  mitigation. Additionally,  
in light of the  long-standing  federal law and  policy prohibiting  illegal drug  
use  while occupying  a  sensitive position  or holding  a  security clearance,  
agencies are  encouraged  to  advise prospective  national security workforce  
employees  that  they  should  refrain  from  any future  marijuana  use  upon  
initiation  of  the  national security vetting  process, which  commences once  
the  individual  signs the  certification  contained  in the  Standard Form  86  
(SF-86), Questionnaire for National Security Positions.  
Applicant possessed and used marijuana while she held a security clearance and 
was working in a sensitive position. AG ¶¶ 25(a), 25(c), and 25(f) are applicable. 
Applicant was administered  a  urinalysis drug  test  in  July 2022.  Her  urine  sample  
tested  positive  for delta-8  THC. She  testified  that  she  did  not  knowingly use  delta-8 
THC. The Appeal Board has held:  
6 
 
 
 
 
          
        
           
       
      
       
        
      
        
       
 
 
          
  
 
 
    
      
The  innocent consumption  or use  of an  illegal drug  or of a  prescription  
medication  without  a  prescription  does  not raise security concerns  under 
Guideline  H. For example,  if an  applicant  consumes brownies  laced  with  
marijuana  at a  party  without knowing  or  suspecting  they contained  
marijuana,  such  consumption  does not  raise  concerns  about  his  or her 
reliability, trustworthiness, judgment,  or willingness to  comply with  laws 
and  regulations and  does not  establish  disqualifying  conditions  under  
Guideline H.  . . .  
In  positive  drug  test cases, the  burden  of establishing  innocent 
consumption  will  be  on  the  applicant. An  applicant’s positive test   for an   
illegal drug  is sufficient to  establish  various Guideline  H disqualifying  
conditions, e.g.,  AG ¶¶  25(a), “any substance  misuse;” 25(b), “testing   
positive for an  illegal drug;” and  possibly  others depending  on  the  
circumstances. Once  a  positive drug  test is proven, an  applicant has the  
burden  to  rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or mitigate  the  security concerns  
arising  from  that positive test.  Directive ¶  E3.1.15. When  an  applicant  
claims the  positive drug  test was the  result of innocent use  or 
consumption,  the  key  issue  will  likely be  whether he  or she  presented  
sufficient  evidence  to  prove  that claim  and  thereby refute  the  pertinent  
SOR allegations.  ISCR  Case  No.  22-01176  at 4-5  (App.  Bd. Aug.  24, 
2023)  (internal citations omitted)  
Applicant vaped nicotine and theorized that she may have borrowed someone 
else’s vape pen and inadvertently ingested delta-8 THC. Another possibility is that she 
may have accidently bought and used a delta -8 THC vape cartridge from the smoke 
shop where she bought her nicotine cartridges. Marijuana use is prevalent in states that 
no longer outlaw it. Delta -8 THC products add another layer to the possibility of 
unknowing ingestion as they may be available in locations where THC -9 products are 
not sold. Applicant readily admitted that she used marijuana (delta -9 THC) on previous 
and subsequent occasions, but she credibly testified that she did not knowingly use 
delta-8 THC. I find that Applicant presented sufficient evidence to prove her claim of 
unknowing ingestion and thereby refute d the pertinent SOR allegation. SOR ¶ 1.b is 
concluded for Applicant. 
AG ¶ 26 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. The following 
are potentially applicable: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  a go, was so  infrequent,  or happened  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur or does  not cast  doubt  
on  the  individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  judgment;  
and  
(b) the individual acknowledges his or her drug involvement and 
substance misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this 
7 
 
 
        
 
 
 
 
 
        
    
   
  
 
         
          
         
      
      
      
    
 
     
          
           
        
  
  
      
           
      
  
 
 
 
 
problem, and has established a pattern of abstinence, including, but not 
limited to: 
(1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts;  
(2) changing  or avoiding  the  environment  where drugs  were  used; 
and  
(3) providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug 
involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future 
involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation o f national security 
eligibility. 
Applicant’s marijuana use while holding a sensitive position gives pause. The 
Appeal Board has consistently held that after being adequately placed on notice that 
such conduct was inconsistent with holding a security clearance , an applicant who 
continues to use marijuana demonstrates a disregard for security clearance eligibility 
standards, and such behavior raises substantial questions about the applicant’s 
judgment, reliability, and willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations. See, 
e.g., ISCR Case No. 21-02534 at 4 (App. Bd. Feb. 13, 2023). 
However, I believe Applicant has matured. She expressed remorse for her illegal 
drug use. She firmly and credibly committed to being drug-free. She is receiving therapy 
for her anxiety, and she passed several drug tests. She signed a statement of intent to 
abstain from all drug involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future 
involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation of national security eligibility. 
I conclude that Applicant’s conduct no longer casts doubt on h er reliability, 
trustworthiness, and good judgment. I find that she has abstained from illegal drug 
involvement for an appropriate period, and that illegal drug involvement is unlikely to 
recur. AG ¶¶ 26(a) and 26(b) are applicable. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the  whole-person  concept,  the  administrative judge  must  evaluate  an  
applicant’s eligibility for a  security clearance  by considering  the  totality of the  applicant’s  
conduct and  all  relevant circumstances.  The  administrative  judge  should  consider the  
nine  adjudicative  process factors listed at AG  ¶ 2(d):  
(1) The  nature, extent,  and  seriousness of the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of  
rehabilitation  and  other permanent  behavioral changes;  (7) the  motivation  
8 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
      
   
 
    
 
    
 
 
      
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
________________________ 
for the  conduct;  (8) the  potential  for pressure, coercion,  exploitation, or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood  of continuation  or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶  2(c), the  ultimate  determination  of whether to  grant eligibility for a  
security clearance  must be  an  overall  commonsense  judgment based  upon  careful 
consideration  of the  guidelines  and  the  whole-person  concept. I have  incorporated  my  
comments under Guideline  H in  my  whole-person  analysis. I also considered  
Applicant’s favorable character evidence.  
Overall, the  record evidence  leaves me  without  questions or doubts about  
Applicant’s eligibility and  suitability for a  security clearance. I   conclude  Applicant
mitigated  the security concerns under Guideline  H.   
  
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline H:  For Applicant 
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.b:  For Applicant 
Conclusion  
It is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a 
security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Edward W. Loughran 
Administrative Judge 
9 