 
 
 
  
 
               DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
    DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
               
          
        
  
 
 
          
        
         
           
          
 
       
   
 
 
______________ 
______________ 
In the  matter of:   )  
 )  
    )     ISCR Case No.  23-01853  
   )  
Applicant for Security Clearance   )  
Appearances  
For Government: William Miller, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Samir Nakhleh, Esq. 
03/27/2025 
Decision  
Curry, Marc E., Administrative Judge: 
Given the circumstances that prompted Applicant’s depression and alcohol abuse, 
the amount of time that has elapsed since the last episode, and the fact that she has 
maintained sobriety for three years, while raising her children, working, and spending part 
of that time attending college, graduating cum laude, I conclude that she has mitigated the 
security concerns. Clearance is granted. 
Statement of the Case  
On October 19, 202 3, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
Consolidated Adjudications Services (DCSA CAS) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) 
to Applicant, detailing trustworthiness concerns under Guideline G (alcohol consumption) 
and Guideline I (psychological conditions ). The D CSA CAS took the action under 
Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 
20, 1960), as amended; D OD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security 
Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the National 
Adjudicative Guidelines (AG) effective for any adjudication on or after June 8, 2017. 
1 
 
 
        
          
              
         
       
      
  
     
        
  
 
        
  
 
      
      
       
      
       
             
          
    
 
        
    
 
 
         
           
          
         
         
     
        
      
 
 
           
          
         
                 
         
          
         
       
On November 14, 2023, Applicant answered the SOR, admitting all the allegations 
except subparagraph 1.d, and request ed a hearing. On May 3 , 2024, the case was 
assigned to me. DOHA issued a notice of video-teleconference hearing on June 3, 2024, 
scheduling the hearing for August 6 , 202 4. The hearing was held as scheduled. I 
considered ten government exhibits, identified as Government Exhibit s (GE) 1 - GE 10, 
eight Applicant E xhibits (AE) A – H, and Applicant’s testimony . At the Government’s 
request, I took administrative notice of the facts set forth in the Diagnostic and Statistical 
Manual of Mental Disorders, (5th Ed.), regarding alcohol-related disorders, incorporating it 
into the record as Hearing Exhibit I. At Department Counsel’s request, I amended the SOR 
to add subparagraph 1.g as follows: 
In about July 2021, you were admitted to [a hospital] for suicidal ideation 
involving misuse of alcohol. 
During direct examination, Applicant testified that she was no longer employed. 
During a break, Department Counsel checked the Joint Personnel Adjudications Systems 
database and discovered that Applicant was no longer sponsored. Consequently, he 
moved to dismiss the case for lack of jurisdiction. (Transcript (Tr.) 29) Applicant’s counsel 
objected, arguing that once a hearing begins, the court must issue a ruling regardless of 
when the loss of sponsorship occurred. I reserved judgment on this issue and left the 
record open for ten days for the parties to provide written arguments in support of their 
respective positions. The hearing proceeded. (Tr. 31) 
Both parties filed timely motions after the hearing. After considering them, I ruled on 
September 27, 2024, in favor of the Government and granted Department Counsel’s 
motion to dismiss for lack of jurisdiction, whereupon the case was closed. 
On October 17, 2024, Department Counsel informed me that Applicant had been 
hired by a company that was going to sponsor her for a security clearance. Moreover, he 
waived any objection to me re-opening the case. Consequently, after notifying Applicant’s 
counsel, I re-opened the case that day, adjudicating it based on the record developed at 
the hearing on August 6, 202 4, including all the exhibits, together with the transcript 
received on August 20, 2024. As Applicant’s new employer is sponsoring her for a security 
clearance rather than for a data processing position, Department Counsel on March 11, 
2025, amended the caption of the original SOR to reflect this change. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 28-year-old married woman with one minor child and two minor 
stepchildren. She has been married since 2023. (AE G at 2) She graduated from high 
school in 2014 and enrolled in college, attending for two years before dropping out and 
joining the U.S. Navy in 201 8. (GE 1 at 14) While in the Navy , she worked as an 
intelligence specialist, serving through 2023 when she was honorably discharged. (Tr. 17) 
While in the Navy, her job performance was highly regarded. In July 2021, a supervisor 
described her as a “hard-charging sailor, dedicated to improvement and raising the bar.” 
(GE 10 at 34) Currently, she works as a defense contractor in the cybersecurity field. A 
2 
 
 
     
      
          
  
 
 
 
             
       
           
          
         
          
        
              
        
 
 
        
        
        
    
 
      
        
             
 
           
             
         
   
               
          
         
         
      
 
       
       
coworker describes her as a woman with exemplary commitment to her du ties, who 
“consistently displays a high level of professionalism, integrity, and diligence in handling 
sensitive information and performing tasks related to [the] organization’s mission.” (AE E) 
She was first granted a security clearance in June 2019. (Tr. 19) 
Applicant had  a  drinking problem. It began  during the COVID lockdown. Applicant  
had  just  relocated  cross-country when  the  pandemic  began  and  had  already  found  the  
situation  disconcerting  because  this was  the  first time  she  had  ever  lived  this  far  from  
home. (Tr. 23) This feeling  became  compounded  when  the  COVID lockdown  occurred. It  
was further compounded  when  structural problems result ed  in the  barracks being  
condemned  and  the  sailors being  moved  into  individual  apartment  apartments  off  base.  (Tr.  
23) Bored  and  lonely when  she  was off  duty,  Applicant began  drinking  alcohol  to  pass the  
time. (Tr. 24)  
By June 2020, Applicant was consuming, on average, a bottle of wine per night. (GE 
6 at 2) On July 4, 2020, Applicant invited several friends to her apartment to drink alcohol. 
Subsequently, she drank to the point where she vomited and blacked out. After she 
sobered up, she began experiencing memory loss, anxiety and insomnia. By July 9, 2020, 
she was having auditory and visual hallucinations, prompting her to check into the hospital. 
While at the hospital , she was evaluated and diagnosed with alcohol use disorder , 
moderate. (Answer at 2) On July 14, 2020, she was transferred to a residential treatment 
facility where she received treatment for 30 days. (GE 6 at 3) Upon discharge, the 
physician who conducted her check -out evaluation recommended that she abstain from 
future alcohol use. 
In April 2021, Applicant was evaluated by a licensed psychologist and diagnosed 
with alcohol -use disorder, moderate, in early remission. (Answer at 2) The evaluator 
concluded that she lacked insight and did not appear to be aware of how her problematic 
alcohol use contributed to her July 2020 hospitalization. (Answer at 2; GE 6 at 4) 
In July 2021, Applicant expressed a desire to commit suicide after consuming two 
bottles of wine. (Tr. 60) After going to the hospital emergency room, she was transferred to 
the behavioral health unit. After meeting with a counselor, she was discharged. (Tr. 60 - 61) 
In August 2021, Applicant self-admitted into a hospital after attempting to kill herself 
by drinking a bottle of wine and taking nine sleeping pills. (Answer at 2; GE 8 at 64; Tr. 61) 
Applicant had recently delivered her son before the episode, and she was experiencing 
postpartum depression. These feelings were magnified when her boyfriend, the father of 
the child, moved out of their home shortly before the birth of the baby. (GE 8 at 38) At the 
hospital, she received crisis intervention therapy and was diagnos ed with alcohol-use 
disorder, moderate, and depressive disorder. (GE 7 at 11, 63) Upon discharge, she began 
attending therapy, as recommended, once per week, and she was prescribed a medication 
for depression as well as a medication to control her alcohol consumption. (GE 8 at 64) 
Applicant went to a hospital again the following month, in September 2021, after an 
episode of suicidal ideation and the consumption of two bottles of wine. (Answer at 2; Tr. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
       
       
      
           
           
 
 
       
          
   
 
       
    
 
 
65)  She  was  diagnosed  with  alcohol-use  disorder, anxiety disorder,  as well as  relationship  
distress with  spouse  or intimate  partner.  (GE  8  at 56, 81)  By October 2021, Applicant’s  
condition  had  stabilized, as indicated  by a  therapist’s report that concluded  she  was  
hopeful, with “a positive future orientation.” (GE  8  at 70)    
In  January 2022, Applicant was admitted  to  a  hospital after another episode  of  
suicidal ideation  while  under the  influence  of alcohol. (Answer at 2; GE  9  at 77)  This  
episode  was triggered,  in part, after a  supervisor crept up  behind  her and  pulled  her hair.  
(Tr. 65) Applicant  then  completed  another 30  days of inpatient alcohol rehabilitation,  
followed  by a  six-week, intensive outpatient program, and  then  began  attending  weekly  
outpatient individual therapy. (AE  G at 1) While  hospitalized, both  of Applicant’s  anti-
depressant medications  and  her medication  to  prevent  alcohol  consumption  were  adjusted.  
(GE 9 at 77) Applicant felt that the  adjustments were effective. (GE 9 at 77)   
In  March  2022, Applicant  began  attending  monthly Alcoholic Anonymous (AA) 
classes. (AE  G at  2)  By the  end  of  2022, Applicant’s psychiatrist began  weaning  her from  
the  medication  to  control alcohol consumption. (Tr. 68) By  August  2023, Applicant,  in  
consultation  with  her medical provider, began  tapering   her antidepressant  medication.  (Tr.  
69) Currently, she  takes neither type of drug.  
Applicant has not consumed any alcoholic beverages since the episode that 
prompted the January 2022 hospital admission. (Tr. 67) In March 2024, a psychologist 
evaluated Applicant and diagnosed her with major depressive disorder in full remission, 
and alcohol use disorder, moderate, in sustained remission. (AE G at 5) Further, the 
psychologist conducted a comprehensive battery of tests and concluded that “she seem[ed] 
to be generally calm, stable, adaptable, alert, [and] optimistic” with no sign of depression. 
(AE G at 3) 
Applicant and her boyfriend , the father of her child, are married now. Their 
relationship is no longer volatile like it was in the past because they “have worked through 
everything” with therapy. (Tr. 71)  
In March 2021, Applicant returned to college. In January 2024, she obtained her 
bachelor’s degree, graduating cum laude with a 3.57 grade-point average. (AE C) 
Policies  
The  U.S. Supreme  Court has recognized  the  substantial discretion  the  Executive  
Branch  has in  regulating  access to  information  pertaining  to  national  security,   emphasizing  
that “no  one  has a  ‘right’ to  a  security clearance.” Department  of the  Navy v. Egan, 484  
U.S. 518, 528 (1988). When evaluating an  applicant’s suitability for a security clearance,  
the  administrative  judge  must  consider the  adjudicative  guidelines. In  addition  to  brief  
introductory explanations for  each  guideline,  the  adjudicative  guidelines list  potentially  
disqualifying  conditions and  mitigating  conditions, which  are required  to  be  considered  in  
evaluating  an  applicant’s eligibility  for  access  to  classified  information.  These  guidelines  are  
not  inflexible  rules  of law. Instead, recognizing  the  complexities  of  human  behavior, these  
4 
 
 
          
      
          
        
            
 
 
     
    
         
       
          
           
         
             
     
 
          
           
  
 
 
 
 
        
         
 
 
         
        
         
   
 
guidelines are applied in conjunction with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The 
administrative judge’s overa ll adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial , and commonsense 
decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a), the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number 
of variables known as the “whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 1(d ) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence 
to establish controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant 
is responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel. . ..” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
Under the whole-person concept, the administrative judge must consider the totality 
of an applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances in light of the nine adjudicative 
process factors in AG ¶ 2(d). They are as follows: 
(1) the  nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct;  
(2) the  circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable 
participation;  
(3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;   
(4) the individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct;  
(5) the  extent to which participation is voluntary;  
(6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  and  other  permanent  behavioral  
changes;  
(7) the  motivation for the conduct;   
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and   
(9) the likelihood  of continuation  or recurrence.  
Analysis  
Guideline G: Alcohol Consumption  
Under this concern, “excessive alcohol consumption often leads to the exercise of 
questionable judgment or the failure to control impulses, and can raise questions about an 
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness.” (AG ¶ 21) 
Applicant has a history of problematic alcohol consumption, often coinciding with 
periods of depression and suicid al ideation. She has been evaluated several times and 
diagnosed with alcohol-use disorder, and she has a history of relapsing after brief periods 
of physician-recommended abstinence from alcohol use. 
5 
 
 
         
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
        
          
          
       
 
 
       
        
     
       
    
  
       
       
       
      
          
     
   
 
 
Under these circumstances, the following disqualifying conditions apply under AG ¶ 
22: 
(a) alcohol-related  incidents  away from  work, such  as driving  while under  the  
influence, fighting,  child  or  spouse  abuse,  disturbing  the  peace,  or  other 
incidents of concern, regardless of the frequency of the individual’s alcohol 
use  or whether the  individual has been  diagnosed  with  alcohol use  disorder;  
(c)  habitual or binge  consumption  of alcohol to  the  point  of impaired  
judgment,  regardless of whether the  individual is diagnosed  with  alcohol use  
disorder; a  
(d) diagnosis by a  duly qualified  medical or mental health  professional  (e.g.,  
physician, clinical psychologist,  psychiatrist,  or  licensed  clinical  social  worker)  
of alcohol use disorder.  
(e) the failure to follow treatment advice once  diagnosed; and  
(f)  alcohol consumption, which  is not in  accordance  with  treatment  
recommendations after a diagnosis of alcohol use disorder.  
Applicant’s problem atic drinking occurred primarily during an 18 -month period 
between approximately June 2020 and January 2022. It began, in part, during the COVID-
19 pandemic-related lockdown, when boredom and loneliness led to binge drinking. It was 
exacerbated by the volatile relationship between Applicant and her boyfriend, the father of 
her child. 
In March 2022, Applicant’s treatment team adjusted the medications that she had 
previously been prescribed to discourage alcohol consumption and prevent depression. 
Although Applicant had been prescribed various types of drugs to combat alcohol use in 
the past, the most recent medications were most effective, as her alcohol cravings were 
curbed and her depression, a major trigger for her abuse of alcohol, decreased. 
Applicant has not consumed alcohol in more than three years. She and her 
boyfriend are now married and are managing their relationship through therapy. Applicant 
regularly attends AA, and the most recent psychologist who evaluated her in March 2024 
concluded that her drinking problem was in sustained remission. Lastly, since her last use 
of alcohol in January 2022, she has finished college, graduating cum laude, while balancing 
her parental responsibilities and working. Under these circumstances, I conclude the 
following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 23 apply: 
(a) So  much  time  has passed, or the  behavior was so  infrequent, or it happened  
under such  unusual circumstances  that it  is unlikely to  recur or does  not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or judgment;  
6 
 
 
 
 
       
 
 
 
   
      
     
          
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) the  individual acknowledges his or  her  pattern  of  maladaptive  alcohol  use,  
provides evidence  of actions taken  to  overcome  this problem, and  has  
demonstrated  a  clear and  established  pattern  of modified  consumption  or 
abstinence in accordance with  treatment recommendations; and   
(d) the  individual has successfully completed  a  treatment  program  along  with  
any required  aftercare  and  has demonstrated  a  clear  and  established  pattern  
of modified  consumption  or abstinence  in  accordance  with  treatment  
recommendations.  
Under these circumstances, I conclude Applicant has mitigated the alcohol 
consumption security concerns. 
Guideline  I:  Psychological Conditions:   
Under this guideline, “ certain emotional, mental, and personality conditions can 
impair judgment, reliability, or trustworthiness.” (AG ¶ 27) Applicant’s history of suicidal 
ideation, together with her diagnosis of depressive disorder and her multiple 
hospitalizations, trigger the application of the following disqualifying conditions under AG ¶ 
28: 
(a) behavior that  casts  doubt on  an  individual’s judgment,  stability, reliability, 
or trustworthiness, not  covered  under any other guideline  and  that may  
indicate  an  emotional,  mental,  or personality condition,  including,   but not  
limited  to, irresponsible, violent,  self-harm, suicidal, paranoid,  manipulative,  
impulsive, chronic lying, deceitful, exploitative, or bizarre behaviors;  
(b) an  opinion  by  a  duly qualified  mental  health  professional that the  
individual has a  condition  that may impair  judgment,  stability, reliability, or  
trustworthiness; and  
(c) voluntary or involuntary inpatient hospitalization.  
The following  mitigating conditions are potentially applicable under AG ¶  29:  
(a) the  identified  condition  is readily controllable with  treatment, and  the  
individual  has  demonstrated  ongoing  and  consistent  compliance  with  the  
treatment plan;  
(b) the  individual  has  voluntarily entered  a  counseling  or  treatment  program  
for a condition that is amenable to treatment, and the individual is currently  
receiving  counseling  or treatment with  a  favorable prognosis by  a  duly  
qualified mental health professional;  
(d) the  past  psychological/psychiatric condition  was temporary, the  situation  
has been  resolved, and  the  individual no  longer shows indications of  
7 
 
 
 
 
      
          
        
       
  
         
             
  
 
       
           
   
            
         
          
         
   
       
  
 
emotional instability; and  
(e) there is no indication of a current problem.  
Given the number of times Applicant experienced acute symptoms of depression 
after she had begun receiving treatment from mental health professionals, I cannot 
conclude that the identified condition was either “readily controllable with treatment,” as 
required under AG ¶ 29(a), or “amenable to treatment,” under AG ¶ 29(b). Nevertheless, 
she continued to work with her mental health treatment professionals, attending therapy, 
and tinkering with the medication regime under the treatment professionals’ supervision 
until she had a breakthrough and stopped having episodes of suicidal ideation. Under these 
circumstances AG ¶ 29(a) and AG ¶ 29(b) are partly applicable. 
Applicant’s mental instability peaked between July 2020 and January 2022, when 
she was struggling to adjust to a relocation at or about the time of the COVID-19 pandemic 
lockdown, battling post-partum depression, and working through a toxic relationship with 
her then-boyfriend (now-husband), who is the father of her child. Her medications appear to 
be controlling both her depression and her alcohol -use disorder, as she has had no 
episodes of suicid al ideation or alcohol consumption in more than three years, and her 
relationship with her husband has stabilized. In addition, the psychologist in March 2024 
stated that her diagnosis of major depressive disorder was in full remission. Under these 
circumstances, I conclude that both AG ¶ 29(d) and AG ¶ 29(e) apply. In sum, I conclude 
that Applicant has mitigated the psychological conditions security concerns. 
  Whole-Person Concept  
 
      
               
          
        
 
 
 
       
    
 
  
 
   
 
    
 
      
 
 
Given the circumstances that prompted Applicant’s depression and alcohol abuse, 
the amount of time that has elapsed since the last episode, and the fact that she has 
maintained sobriety for three years, while raising her children, working, and spending part 
of that time attending college, graduating cum laude, I conclude that she has mitigated the 
security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline G:   FOR  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a  –  1.g:  For  Applicant  
Paragraph  2, Guideline  I:  FOR  APPLICANT  
Subparagraph  2.a:  For  Applicant  
8 
 
 
 
       
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
_____________________ 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is clearly 
consistent with the interests of national security to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Marc E. Curry 
Administrative Judge 
9 