 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 23-01723 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: John G. Hannink, Esq., Department Counsel, 
For Applicant: Pro se 
03/06/2025 
Decision 
GARCIA, Candace Le’i, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not mitigate the drug involvement and substance misuse security 
concerns. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case 
On August 31, 2023, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline H (drug 
involvement and substance misuse). The action was taken under Executive Order (Exec. 
Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as 
amended; D OD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance 
Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative 
guidelines (AG) implemented by DOD on June 8, 2017. 
Applicant submitted a response to the SOR (Answer) on September 15, 2023, and 
she requested a hearing before an administrative judge. The case was assigned to me 
on April 1, 2024. The Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a notice 
on April 8, 2024, scheduling the matter for a video conference hearing on May 8, 2024. I 
convened the hearing as scheduled. 
At the hearing, I admitted in evidence without objection Government Exhibits (GE) 
1 and 2. Applicant testified, did not call any witnesses, and submitted documentation I 
1 
     
    
marked as Applicant Exhibits (AE) A -G and admitted in evidence without objection . At 
Applicant’s request, I kept the record open until May 22, 2024, to enable h er the 
opportunity to submit additional documents. By that date, she submitted documentation 
that I marked as AE H and admitted in evidence without objection. DOHA received the 
hearing transcript (Tr.) on May 20, 2024. 
Findings of Fact 
Applicant admitted the sole SOR allegation in h er Answer. She is 51 years old. 
She earned a bachelor’s degree in 1996. She married in 1996, divorced in 20 04, and 
remarried in 2017. She has an adult stepchild. She has worked as a self-employed writer 
since 1996. She also worked for non -defense contractors from 2004 to 2013 and briefly 
in 2021. She has never held a security clearance. In June 2021, she received an offer of 
employment in a customer service position from a defense contractor contingent on 
obtaining a security clearance. She resides in state A, in the home she has owned since 
May 2010. (Tr. 5-9, 32-39, 65, 78-79, 82; GE 1; AE G) 
Applicant used marijuana with varying frequency from about January 1 986 to 
September 2023. She disclosed information regarding her marijuana use on h er 
September 2022 security clearance application (SCA) , during her October 2022 
background interview, and in her August 2023 response to interrogatories. She first used 
marijuana in 1986, at age 12, when a sibling 11 years her senior introduced her to it to 
ensure she understood the consequences of using marijuana. She recalled next using it 
at age 13, with the same sibling. She continued to use it sporadically with the same sibling 
until age 15, when she began using it with friends through age 17. She did not purchase 
marijuana during this time, as s omeone else usually obtained it. At age 17, she began 
using it more frequently, sometimes alone, and she began to purchase it for her personal 
use from a friend of a friend. (SOR ¶ 1.a; Tr. 24-26, 39-40, 53-65, 71-77; GE 1-2) 
In college at age 18, Applicant used marijuana daily. She used it primarily alone, 
to relax at night and fall asleep. She continued to use it daily for insomnia and to manage 
pain related to a chronic disorder. She liked it, it relaxed her, relieved some of her pain, 
and helped her sleep. She used it primarily alone at home, but she also used it with others 
at social gatherings. She stated in her SCA and response to interrogatories she never 
used marijuana during work or when she needed to drive, and she was not addicted to it. 
She also stated in her response to interrogatories she has been to social functions where 
marijuana and other drugs are likely being used, and she probably associates with people 
who use illegal substances. She testified her spouse, sisters, and father are aware of her 
marijuana use. (Tr. 24-26, 39-40, 53-65, 72, 78-79, 88-90; GE 1-2) 
When Applicant first began purchasing marijuana, she spent approximately $150 
to $200 for a quarter to half an ounce of marijuana around monthly. In college, she spent 
at most $300 for one ounce of marijuana approximately monthly. In approximately 2020 
or 2021, she began purchasing marijuana for her personal use from a medical dispensary 
in state B, where marijuana is legal, because it was more convenient and less costly. She 
indicated during her background interview she d id not have a medical marijuana card , 
she used marijuana illegally in state A where she resides, and she was aware marijuana 
2 
        
          
  
 
      
     
        
        
  
   
 
    
    
     
          
    
         
       
is illegal in state A and federally. At the hearing, she testified she became aware that 
marijuana is federally illegal around the time she completed her SCA. Up until then, she 
believed federal law “had  like  qualifiers,  or you  could  use  [marijuana]  medicinally.” (Tr.  
65) She acknowledged she continued to use marijuana until September 2023, despite 
becoming aware around the time she completed her SCA that marijuana was federally 
illegal. (Tr. 24-26, 44-45, 61-71, 79, 83-88, 94-98; GE 1-2; AE B-D) 
Applicant marked “Yes” to the question in Section 23 of her SCA that asked 
whether she intended to use marijuana in the future. She stated therein, “If allowed, I will 
continue. I am willing to quit if it is a condition of employment.” (Tr. 40-41; GE 1) During 
her background interview and in her response to interrogatories, she stated she would 
immediately stop using marijuana because of her new job, and she had no intent to use 
illegal drugs in the future. (Tr. 41-44; GE 2 ) 
Applicant stated in her SCA, during her background interview, and in her response 
to interrogatories that she quit marijuana use several times . She stated in her SCA, “I 
smoked only rarely while married to a cop. He had knowledge, but I kept him away from 
it.” (GE 1) She testified at the hearing, “In 1996, I married a police officer, and I did not 
smoke at all during our eight -year marriage because if I can’t, I don’t.” (Tr. 28) She later 
testified, “As far as my former husband is concerned, I think in the eight years we were 
together, I smoked four times maybe.” (Tr. 41) She continued, “And especially when I 
lived in Florida and when I went home to visit my sisters and he was in Florida and didn’t 
know about it, I did -- I did smoke. I misspoke when I said that I didn’t.” (Tr. 41) 
Applicant also testified that when she was suffering from health issues, “[i]n 2012, 
I quit smoking tobacco, and due to the association with smoking marijuana, I quit again 
easily until roughly 2016.” (Tr. 30) After she received the employment offer from a defense 
contractor in June 2021, she continued to use marijuana when she believed the offer was 
no longer valid . She also enjoyed using marijuana. She purchased marijuana the day 
before m eeting with her recruiter in October 2022 and learn ing that the offer was still 
active, and she continued to purchase and use marijuana until mid-December 2022. She 
stated she did not use marijuana until March 2023, after there was a fire in half of her new 
kitchen. S he used it “for a few more months and then quit again .” (Tr. 26) She used 
marijuana during this period because her pain, anxiety, depression, and nausea 
worsened, and “there was no word about the job.” (Tr. 73 -74, 77; GE 2) She stopped 
using marijuana in July 2023 “after speaking with the recruiter” and decided to stop using 
illegal substances because it is a requirement for her job. (Tr. 71-77; GE 2) 
Although Applicant stated in her response to interrogatories she last purchased 
marijuana from a dispensary in July 2023 , she testified her last purchase of marijuana 
was in August 2023 . She stated, “And that probably lasted about, I don’t -- I don’t 
remember what I bought at that point. But it usually lasted two or three weeks. And then 
once it was done, I stopped again.” (Tr. 46) She attributed her “sporadic” use of marijuana 
in August 2023 “more due to circumstances than it was to pain” and “my anxiety was so 
bad that I said I don’t care, I’m going to smoke, I don’t care. And that was the last time.” 
(Tr. 45-46) She then stated she last used marijuana in September 2023. (Tr. 24-26, 28, 
31, 41 -44, 52 -53, 61, 71 -77, 80 -81; GE 1 -2; AE H ) She testified she does not need 
3 
        
 
 
    
         
 
 
marijuana  and, “If I can’t, I don’t.”  (Tr. 25-26, 28, 31, 53) She testified she did not 
definitively stop using marijuana earlier , “Because  I thought I had  time. I thought I didn’t  
have  to  stop  until I started  working.” (Tr. 81-82) She also testified she did not understand 
the severity of her marijuana use and its impact on her security clearance eligibility and 
her prospective employment until she spoke with Department Counsel around the time 
she  responded  to  the  Government’s interrogatories in August 2023. (Tr. 41-42, 70-71, 93-
96; GE 2). 
Applicant also referenced the December 21, 2021, Director of National Intelligence 
Security Executive Agent Clarifying Guidance Concerning Marijuana for Agencies 
Conducting Adjudications of Persons Proposed for Eligibility for Access to Classified 
Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (Clarifying Guidance) in her May 9, 
2024, letter. (Tr. 24; AE E, H) She stated: 
I argue that my misunderstandings were the result of 2 and a half years of 
no contact or explanation from anyone at . . . (except a recruiter who had 
no information on the progress) was both frustrating and interpretable as 
failure to  receive  a  denial in  the  mail  (because  I  also  wasn’t  informed  
whether the denial would come via US Mail or email). The actual 
adjudication process was never fully explained to me, and I was not 
informed to cease marijuana use immediately upon the beginning of the 
vetting process. (AE H) 
In an April 21, 2024, affidavit, Applicant stated, “I , [Applicant] have ceased all 
marijuana use and will continue to so as [sic] long as I maintain security clearance. 
Additionally, I have disposed of all paraphernalia associated with marijuana use.” (AE F) 
She testified she disposed of all marijuana -related paraphernalia when she stopped 
smoking marijuana. (Tr. 30-31, 44, 90-94) In her May 2024 letter, she also stated, “I am 
offering this statement of intent to refrain from marijuana use going forward.” (AE H) She 
further stated, “ I will abstain from any drug use in the future and remove myself from 
situations where cannabis is being used. I am not a security risk.” (AE H) She maintained, 
“I have no association with drug dealers, and contact with users is limited. I can walk away 
if I need to.” (Tr. 52-53, 63-64, 79-80; AE H) She did not explicitly state, in either her April 
2024 Affidavit or her May 2024 letter, that her failure to abstain from all drug involvement 
and substance misuse would result in the revocation of her clearance. (Tr. 91; AE F, H) 
However, she referenced the attestation of intent discussed in the Clarifying Guidance in 
her May 2024 letter and noted, “This is that attestation.” (Tr. 100-101; AE H) 
Applicant testified at the hearing: 
Well, as I stated in my affidavit, I have quit. I intend to stay like that for as 
long as I am employed or as long as I have security clearance. In the future, 
I can’t tell  you  one  way or another. But I will  not smoke  while I  am  a  
government employee. (Tr. 40-41) 
Applicant stated she understood marijuana use is incompatible with holding a 
security clearance. She stated she was taking medication to manage her anxiety, 
4 
   
    
     
 
 
 
    
       
 
insomnia, pain from her chronic disorder, and her mental health. She was also seeing a 
chiropractor, exercising, and meditating. She was not subject to pre -employment drug 
testing by her prospective employer, and she was unaware whether she would be subject 
to random drug testing by h er prospective employer. She did not believe she would be 
subject to drug testing until she commenced working. She acknowledged she stopped 
using marijuana around the times she was offered employment and understood the offer 
remained valid, and self -administered drug tests to ensure she tested negative, on the 
chance she might be drug tested by her prospective employer. (Tr. 43, 46-53, 72, 90-94; 
GE 1-2) 
Applicant cited to her performance at her previous places of employment , to 
include at a family-owned dry cleaners, a horse racing track, as a student advisor at her 
college, as an overnight residential counselor at a children’s home, and as an 
administrative assistant for a medical equipment company, and to her church 
involvement, as indicators of her honesty, reliability, trustworthiness, and judgment. She 
asked for them to be factored into her “ whole person” analysis, as instructed by the 
Clarifying Guidance. (Tr. 26-31; AE E) Two individuals, with whom Applicant worked from 
1994 to 1996 as a teller at the horse racing track referenced above, stated that Applicant 
“handled large amounts of cash at a fast pace” and described her as an exemplary 
employee. (Tr. 26-31, 33-34; AE A, E) 
Policies 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number o f variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 
2(b) requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national 
security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
5 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off- duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of “compromise of classified information. Section 7 of Exec. O r. 
10865 provides that adverse decisions shall  be  “in  terms of the  national interest  and  shall  
in no  sense  be  a  determination  as to  the  loyalty of  the  applicant  concerned.” See also 
Exec. Or. 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access to classified or 
sensitive information). 
Analysis 
Guideline H: Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse 
The security concern for drug involvement and substance misuse is set out in AG 
¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non-prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual's reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any “controlled substance”  as 
defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in 
this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
The guideline notes the following applicable conditions that could raise security 
concerns under AG ¶ 25: 
(a) any substance misuse . . . ; and 
(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation, 
processing, manufacture, purchase, sale, or distribution; or p ossession of 
drug paraphernalia. 
Applicant used marijuana with varying frequency from approximately January 1986 
through September 2023. AG ¶¶ 25(a) and 25(c) apply. 
AG ¶ 26 provides the following potentially relevant mitigating conditions: 
6 
     
    
  
    
          
    
     
       
       
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or happened 
u
nder such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or does not cast doubt 
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;  
(b) the individual acknowledges his or her drug involvement and substance 
misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and 
has established a pattern of abstinence, including, but not limited to: . . . 
(1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts; 
(2) changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were used; 
and 
(3) providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug 
involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future 
involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation of national security 
eligibility. 
In addition, in October 2014, noting the recent decriminalization of marijuana use 
in several states and the District of Columbia, the Director of National Intelligence issued 
a memorandum titled, “Adherence to Federal Laws Prohibiting Marijuana Use,” reminding 
agency heads that such changes to state marijuana laws do not alter the existing National 
Security Adjudicative Guidelines and asserting that an individual’s disregard of federal 
marijuana la w remains adjudicatively relevant in national security determinations. 
Subsequently in 2021, however, particularly in response to the increasing number of state 
and local governments legalizing or decriminalizing marijuana use, the Director of 
National Intelligence issued the Cl arifying Guidance, which instructs that “prior 
recreational marijuana use by an individual may be relevant to adjudications but not 
determinative,” and reiterates the requirement that agencies utilize the Whole-Person 
Concept “to carefully weigh a number of variables in an individual’s life to determine 
whether that individual’s behavior raises a security concern, if at all, and whether that 
concern has been mitigated such that the individual may now receive a favorable 
adjudicative determination.” 
Applicants cannot be expected to be constitutional law experts or versed in the 
concept of Federal supremacy. The ambiguity between state and federal drug laws and 
the ensuing confusion was addressed by the Clarifying Guidance. Relevant to the topic 
of notice, the Clarifying Guidance encourages employers “to advise prospective national 
security workforce employees that they should refrain from any future marijuana use upon 
initiation of the national security vetting process, which commences once the individ ual 
signs the certification contained in the [SCA].” Implicit in this guidance is the recognition 
that the SCA itself no longer puts applicants on notice and that employers should 
affirmatively be providing notice to prospective employees. The SecEA’s guid ance to 
employers, however, cannot be presumed to have been followed. See ISCR Case No. 
23-00476 (App. Bd. May 1, 2024) 
7 
     
       
  
Here, Applicant self-reported information about h er marijuana use on her SCA, 
during her background interview, and in her response to interrogatories . She stated she 
does not associate with individuals who use illegal drugs. Although she understood that 
marijuana was illegal in the state in which she resides, she maintained she did not truly 
understand that marijuana was federally illegal and would impact her security clearance 
eligibility until approximately August 2023. In April 2024 and May 2024, s he signed a 
statement of intent to abstain from marijuana and illegal drug use in the future. AG ¶¶ 
26(b)(1), 26(b)(2), and 26(b)(3) apply. 
However, Applicant has used marijuana daily since approximately age 18, she last 
purchased marijuana in August 2023, and she last used marijuana in September 2023, 
after she understood that marijuana was federally illegal. She has not yet established a 
pattern of abstinence, especially considering her previous efforts to abstain from 
marijuana use. Her marijuana use did not happen so long ago, was not so infrequent, and 
did not happen under such circumstances that are unlikely to recur. Her drug involvement 
continues to cast doubt about her current reliability, trustworthiness, and judgment. More 
time is necessary to establish her future abstinence from marijuana use. AG ¶ 26(a) does 
not apply and AG ¶ 26(b) does not fully apply. 
Whole-Person Concept 
Under the whole-person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a  security clearance  by considering  the  totality of the  applicant’s  
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. I considered the potentially 
disqualifying an d mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances 
surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under Guideline H in my whole-
person analysis. I have considered information about Applicant’s whole person, to include 
her performance at her previous places of employment. Overall, the r ecord evidence 
leaves me with questions and doubts about Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a 
security clearance. I conclude Applicant did not mitigate the drug involvement and 
substance misuse security concerns. 
8 
 
 
________________________ 
Formal Findings 
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline H: AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph 1.a: Against Applicant 
Conclusion 
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant’s eligibility for a security 
clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Candace Le’i Garcia 
Administrative Judge 
9 