 
 
 
                                                              
                         
          
           
             
 
    
  
       
  
  
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
   
 
 
 
       
       
     
            
 
 
      
         
          
        
             
  
 
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 23-02387 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Dan O’Reilley, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
01/24/2025 
Decision 
LOUGHRAN, Edward W., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not mitigate the financial considerations security concerns . 
Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case 
On November 6, 2023, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline F (financial 
considerations). Applicant responded to the SOR on November 30 , 2023, and 
requested a hearing before an administrative judge . The case was assigned to me on 
July 2, 2024. 
The hearing was convened as scheduled on September 19, 2024. Government 
Exhibits (GE) 1 through 5 were admitted in evidence without objection. Applicant 
testified and submitted Appli cant Exhibits (AE) A and B, which were admitted without 
objection. The record was held open for Applicant to submit additional documentary 
evidence. He submitted an email that I have marked AE (C) and admitted in evidence 
without objection. 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
       
          
            
    
 
           
     
     
    
        
         
         
          
      
 
 
           
       
             
           
          
  
 
      
        
        
         
           
          
           
          
   
 
       
      
               
    
 
     
            
           
 
          
            
               
Findings of Fact 
Applicant is a 54-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for 
his current employer since February 2023. He earned an associate degree in 1991, a 
bachelor’s degree in 20 20, and a master’s degree in 2021 . He is married with three 
adult children. (Tr. at 17-20; GE 1, 2) 
Applicant has been disabled since he was a child, which has led to multiple 
operations and sustained periods of unemployment and underemployment. He received 
Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) payments when he was unable to work. His 
wife is also disabled , does not work , and receives SSDI payments. He was unable to 
pay all his bills and several debts became delinquent. He decided his best course was 
to continue his education. He worked as a cont ract employee of his current employer 
from about March 2021 until he was hired as a direct employee of the contractor in 
February 2023 . His annual salary increased from about $30,000 at his former job to 
about $68,000 at his current job. (Tr. at 14-15, 19-25; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 
1, 2) 
The SOR alleges $8,126 owed on an auto loan after the vehicle was 
repossessed (SOR ¶ 1. a) and six miscellaneous delinquent debts in amounts ranging 
from $109 to $1,025 and totaling about $3,038. Applicant admitted owing all the debts in 
his response to the SOR, except for the $374 debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.d, which he 
denied. All the debts are listed on one or more credit reports . (Applicant’s response to 
SOR; GE 4, 5; AE A, B) 
Applicant had a secured debt for furniture that became delinquent. This debt was 
not alleged in the SOR and cannot be used for disqualification purposes but may be 
used while assessing the applicability of mitigating conditions and in the whole -person 
analysis. He received a settlement from a car accident of about $10,000 in 2022. He 
stated that he used about $1,500 from the settlement to settle the $ 3,000 furniture debt. 
His credit report showed the balance as $4,594 in June 2022 before the debt was 
settled with payments totaling $2,548 in June and July 2022. He donated $5,000 to his 
church, and he used the remaining funds for bills and general living expenses . (Tr. at 
26-29; 39; GE 1-5; AE A, B) 
Applicant submitted a Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86) in 
February 2023. He reported all the SOR debts, except for the $240 debt alleged in SOR 
¶ 1.e. He wrote that the $374 debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.d “was a loan I think.” He 
indicated the debts were charged off, and he had no plans for further action. (GE 1) 
Applicant was interviewed for his background investigation in April 2023. He 
discussed the SOR debts. He stated that the $374 debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.d might be 
for a loan, but he was unsure, and that the only information he had on the account was 
that it was on his credit report. He stated that he did not intend to pay the $8,126 vehicle 
loan (SOR ¶ 1.a) because he had to make payments on his current vehicle. He stated 
that the $240 department store debt (SOR ¶ 1.e) was opened by his wife without his 
knowledge. He stated that he did not pay the $109 utility debt (SOR ¶ 1.f) because the 
2 
 
 
 
      
        
   
 
     
      
          
          
       
      
        
  
 
        
  
        
             
     
          
  
 
      
         
       
 
 
        
              
  
           
     
            
        
         
      
        
       
       
 
 
         
       
       
      
   
 
 
electric bill went up substantially. He stated that he would attempt to contact the creditor 
and set up a payment plan. He stated that he did not intend to pay other debts because 
they were charged off. (GE 2) 
Applicant responded to DoD interrogatories in August 2023. He had not made 
any payments toward his delinquent debts. He wrote for several of the debts, including 
the $374 debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.d, that his “[f]inancial status has not and does not 
allow for repayment of this debt.” Even though he had specifically discussed the $240 
department store debt (SOR ¶ 1.e) during his background interview, he wrote that he 
did not recognize the debt, and that he had never had an account with the company. He 
stated that he could not currently pay the $109 utility debt (SOR ¶ 1.f) “due to financial 
hardship.” (GE 3) 
Applicant did not pay any of the SOR debts before the hearing. He wrote in his 
November 2023 response to the SOR that he owed the $109 utility debt (SOR ¶ 1.f), but 
he was unable to pay the debt. He testified that the debt, as well as the $240 debt (SOR 
¶ 1.e), the $374 disputed debt (SOR ¶ 1.e), and the $468 debt (SOR ¶ 1.g) , had fallen 
off his credit report. Those debts are not reflected on the two credit reports submitted by 
Applicant. The remaining debts continue to be listed on his credit reports. (Tr. at 29 -30; 
Applicant’s response to SOR; AE A, B) 
On November 22, 2024, Applicant settled the $822 debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.c for 
$658, payable through ten payments of $65.82. The payments are to be automatically 
deducted every two weeks from Applicant’s account. He did not document any 
payments. (AE C) 
Applicant testified that he has concentrated on paying his current bills, and he did 
not have the income to pay his delinquent debts, but he planned on paying his debts as 
he becomes more financially secure. His credit reports do not reflect any new debts that 
were not alleged in the SOR. His wife’s SSDI payments are about $801 a month, but he 
wrote that he does not use those payments for bills or household expenses, as “[s]he 
used it for her small bills: a credit account, a small credit card account and a dental bill. 
The remainder is spent on our grandkids and anything else that she may need.” One of 
their sons lives with them and provides $800 per month toward rent. Applicant owes 
more than $1 20,000 in federal student loans. They have been and remain deferred 
because he was attending school, then as part of COVID relief, and currently because 
there is a pending lawsuit against the college. He does not know when or if he will have 
to start paying his student loans or how much his payments will be. He has received 
some financial counseling through his church. (Tr. at 18-19, 33-44; GE 3-5; AE A, B) 
Applicant submitted his bank and credit union statements in response to DoD 
interrogatories. A July 2023 bank statement shows debits totaling $230 for fast food 
restaurants, doughnuts, and pizza. A separate joint credit union statement in Applicant’s 
and his wife’s name for July 2023 shows debits totaling $217 for restaurants, including 
fast food restaurants, and Starbucks. (GE 3) 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
    
      
       
      
 
 
     
        
       
         
   
 
          
    
       
        
          
     
     
 
 
      
    
    
 
        
       
       
     
     
 
          
          
     
             
     
       
         
     
 
 
          
               
       
 
Policies 
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines (AG ), which became 
effective on June 8, 2017. 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According 
to AG ¶ 2(c), the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number o f variables 
known as the “whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all 
available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, 
or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel .” The 
applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters a f iduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation of potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
 
    
    
 
 
  
 
      
  
 
      
   
 
 
 
      
            
     
  
 
Analysis 
Guideline F, Financial Considerations  
The security concern for financial considerations is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to  live  within  one’s means, satisfy debts,  and  meet  financial  
obligations may indicate  poor self-control, lack of judgment,  or  
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise  
questions about an  individual’s reliability, trustworthiness,  and  ability to  
protect  classified  or  sensitive information.  Financial distress can  also be  
caused  or  exacerbated  by, and  thus can  be  a  possible  indicator of,  other  
issues of  personnel security  concern  such  as  excessive gambling, mental  
health  conditions, substance  misuse, or alcohol  abuse  or dependence.  An  
individual who  is financially overextended  is at  greater  risk of having  to  
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to  generate funds.  
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) inability to satisfy debts;  and  
(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations. 
Applicant has a history of delinquent debts and financial problems. AG ¶¶ 19(a) 
and 19(c) are applicable. 
Conditions that could mitigate the financial considerations security concerns are 
provided under AG ¶ 20. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or occurred  
under such  circumstances that it is unlikely to  recur and  does not cast  
doubt on   the  individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good   
judgment;   
(b) the  conditions  that resulted  in the  financial problem  were largely  
beyond  the  person’s  control (e.g.,  loss of employment, a  business  
downturn, unexpected  medical emergency,  a  death, divorce  or separation,  
clear victimization  by  predatory  lending  practices, or identity  theft),  and  the  
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
(c) the individual has received or is receiving financial counseling for the 
problem from a legitimate and credible source, such as a non -profit credit 
counseling service, and there are clear indications that the problem is 
being resolved or is under control; 
5 
 
 
 
 
        
        
          
  
 
          
          
 
  
  
         
      
       
       
         
         
    
         
          
   
    
 
         
     
      
        
             
  
 
        
       
    
         
         
               
 
 
        
    
       
            
       
      
  
(d) the  individual initiated  and  is adhering  to  a  good-faith  effort to  repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  and  
(e) the individual has a reasonable basis to dispute the legitimacy of the 
past-due debt which is the cause of the problem and provides 
documented proof to substantiate the basis of the dispute or provides 
evidence of actions to resolve the issue. 
Applicant denied owing the $374 debt (SOR ¶ 1.e), and it is not reflected on the 
two credit reports he submitted. I am giving him the benefit of the doubt on this debt and 
find it mitigated. 
Applicant is credited with settling a debt in 2022 that was not alleged in the SOR. 
His donation of about $5,000 to his church is commendable, but it is also questionable 
as it came at the expense of paying his creditors. He did not pay any of the SOR debts 
before his hearing. Some of the debts are not on his recent credit reports , but that does 
not establish any meaningful, independent evidence as to the disposition of the debt. 
See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 14 -03612 at 3 (App. Bd. Aug. 25, 2015). In November 2024, 
he settled the $822 debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.c for $658, payable through ten payments 
of $65.82, automatically deducted every two weeks from his account. However, a n 
applicant who begins to resolve security concerns only after having been placed on 
notice that his or her clearance is in jeopardy may lack the judgment and willingness to 
follow rules and regulations when his or her personal interests are not threatened . See, 
e.g., ISCR Case No. 20-02971 at 4 (App. Bd. Jun. 15, 2023). 
This is not an easy case because Applicant has been disabled since he was a 
child, and his wife is disabled. His financial problems were beyond his control. For AG ¶ 
20(b) to be applicable, he must also prove that he has acted responsibly under the 
circumstances. Unfortunately, he has not. He testified that he concentrated on paying 
his current bills, and he did not have the income to pay his delinquent debts. I accept 
that as true before he started working for his current employer in February 2023. 
It took some time for Applicant to get back on his feet, but I cannot accept that 
he was unable at any point to pay debts as small as $109 and $240, particularly in light 
of his July 2023 bank and credit union statements that show many debits for fast food 
restaurants, doughnuts, pizza, and Starbucks. I am giving t hose debits limited weight 
because Applicant was not questioned about the debits at his hearing, but I cannot give 
them no weight. The bottom line is he went an extended period without paying a ny of 
his debts, including two debts that totaled less than $350. 
Applicant has had a difficult life, but I am bound by AG ¶ 2(b), which requires that 
“[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security eligibility will 
be resolved in favor of the national security.” Applicant did not act responsibly under the 
circumstances, and he did not mak e a good -faith effort to pay h is debts. H is financial 
issues are recent and ongoing . They continue to cast doubt on h is current reliability, 
trustworthiness, and good judgment. The above mitigating conditions, individually or 
collectively, are insufficient to eliminate concerns about his finances. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
       
          
   
 
      
     
  
 
 
      
   
 
     
 
    
      
      
 
 
        
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
________________________ 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the  whole-person  concept,  the  administrative judge  must  evaluate  an  
applicant’s eligibility for a  security clearance  by considering  the  totality of the  applicant’s  
conduct and  all  relevant circumstances.  The  administrative  judge  should  consider the  
nine  adjudicative  process factors listed at AG  ¶  2(d):  
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of  
rehabilitation  and  other permanent  behavioral changes;  (7) the  motivation  
for the  conduct;  (8) the  potential  for pressure, coercion,  exploitation, or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood  of continuation  or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole -person concept. I have incorporated my 
comments under Guideline F in my whole-person analysis. 
Overall, the r ecord evidence leaves me with questions and doubts about 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. I conclude Applicant did not 
mitigate the financial considerations security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline F: Against Applicant 
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.c:  Against Applicant 
Subparagraph  1.d:  For Applicant 
Subparagraphs 1.e-1.g:  Against Applicant 
Conclusion  
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for 
a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Edward W. Loughran 
Administrative Judge 
7 