 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
  
  
 
 
    
  
  
    
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
DEFENSE  OFFICE  OF  HEARINGS  AND  APPEALS  
~ 
Ci 
t 0 &.:;~ .1-WUII 
~ 
\\F 
In  th
e  matter  of:  )  
)  
 )  ISCR  Case  No.  23-02569  
)  
Applicant  for  Security  Clearance  )  
Appearances  
For Government: John Lynch, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Samir Nakhleh, Esq. 
04/16/2025 
Decision 
GOLDSTEIN, Jennifer, I., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not mitigate the security concerns under I (psychological conditions). 
Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of  the  Case  
On March 19, 2024, the Department of Defense (DoD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline I. Applicant 
responded to the SOR on April 21, 2024, and requested a hearing before an 
administrative judge. The case was assigned to me on February 5, 2025. The hearing 
convened as scheduled on March 4, 2025. 
Evidence  
Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 5 were admitted in evidence without 
objection. Applicant testified and submitted Applicant’s Exhibits (AE) A through L, which 
were admitted without objection. 
  
            
 
    
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
   
   
    
    
   
  
       
  
    
  
   
           
   
   
 
  
  
   
  
    
   
   
       
   
  
  
Without objection, I have taken administrative notice of certain provisions of the 
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-5). Those 
excerpts are marked hearing exhibit (HE) I. 
Findings  of  Fact  
Applicant is a 37- year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for 
his current employer since May 2024. He served on active duty in the U.S. Army from 
2008 until he was honorably discharged in 2015. He has served in his state’s Army 
National Guard since his discharge from active duty in 2015. His paygrade is E -5. He 
seeks to retain a security clearance, which he has held for 17 years. He has never 
received a security violation, has never been reprimanded at work, and has never 
received non-judicial punishment. He is married with three children. He is currently taking 
classes toward obtaining a professional certificate. (Transcript (Tr.) at 21- 29, 32- 34, 59; 
GE 1; AE B, AE E) 
In 2011 to 2012, Applicant deployed to Afghanistan. Prior to deployment, he 
attended a stress management class in May 2011. He also reported “fainting (syncope).” 
(GE 3 at 87-88) During deployment in Afghanistan, he lost multiple close friends who were 
killed in the line of duty. He also was in a truck accident and received a head injury. 
Applicant testified that his head injury caused a seizure condition, and that he has 
experienced grand mal seizures. He explained that he was diagnosed with mild traumatic 
brain injury (TBI), however his medical records on this claim are conflicting. (Answer; GE 
1, GE 3 at 85, 351, 356- 360) Between 2008 and 2015, he participated in multiple 
screening tests for anxiety and depression, which were always negative. (GE 3 at 688) 
Since Applicant’s discharge from active duty, he has had a history of mental health 
treatment and four suicide attempts. He received treatment through an Army clinic, 
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) clinics, and private providers with varying frequency 
since October 2015 for depressive disorder – unspecified (SOR ¶1.a). He first sought 
treatment in 2015, right after he was discharged. At that time, he was struggling with the 
transition to civilian life. (Answer, Tr. 26, 35-40) His psychological history is as follows. 
In September 2015, Applicant participated in a behavioral health prescreening that 
diagnosed him with adjustment disorder with anxiety at the time of his involuntary 
separation from the Army. (GE 3 at 81, 668-670) From January to March 2016, Applicant 
sought treatment on base with the mental health clinic. He received six months of 
extended medical benefits after his discharge, which allowed him access to the base 
medical clinic. (Answer; Tr. 65) His medical records show diagnoses of insomnia, 
depressive episodes, and migraine with aura. The credentials of the provider are not 
identified. (GE 3 at 80) After that six-month period, his treatment was terminated because 
his medical benefits expired. (GE 3 at 789) However, he sought treatment again in 2016 
related to transitional stress. The treating psychiatrist at that time confirmed the earlier 
diagnosis. (GE 3 at 669) 
2 
  
           
    
   
   
  
   
     
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
     
      
    
 
  
   
  
 
  
  
      
   
          
 
In 2017, Applicant twice attempted suicide by overdosing on medications. (SOR 
¶ 1.c) The first attempt was in January 2017, on the anniversary of one of his friend’s 
deaths. He took 18 pills. They made him sleep for several hours, and then he woke up. 
He did not tell anyone outside of his family of his attempt at that time. (GE 3 at 788; Tr. 
67-69) Applicant was prescribed Sertraline (Zoloft) by his primary care manager in June 
2017. (GE 3 at 80 pdf 135) The second suicide attempt was in July or August 2017, after 
he had another seizure, and his migraines worsened. He again intentionally overdosed 
on a sleeping medication. He awoke the next day without incident. (Answer; GE 3 at 14; 
Tr. 70) 
Applicant began mental health treatment in July 2017. He attended therapy with a 
licensed clinical social worker (EJ). EJ diagnosed Applicant with depressive disorder. Her 
treatment notes reflect about 30 different sessions over the course of five years, with the 
last session occurring in February 2021. Each session was for about an hour. (AE D) 
During treatment, he noted recurring suicidal ideation, noncompliance with his 
prescription of Zoloft, and repeated incidents of fluctuating moods. (SOR ¶ 1.i) (AE D; Tr. 
50.) 
From August 19 through August 21, 2017, Applicant was involuntarily hospitalized 
after a suicide attempt. (SOR ¶ 1.b) Prior to his attempt, he was taking a prescribed 
medication called amitriptyline, which was supposed to help with his sleep issues and 
migraines, but only exacerbated his sleep issues. He had been unable to sleep for three 
days when while viewing Facebook, he saw a picture of a friend that had been killed in 
action. His recollection of events after that is imperfect, but he acknowledged that he 
ended up retrieving his firearm with the intent to shoot himself. His wife and sister 
intervened. Police transported him to a local hospital, where he received treatment for 
three days. He was diagnosed with PTSD and discharged with prescriptions of Zoloft and 
Restoril. (GE 3 at 7, 13; AE D; Tr. 38-40, 71-73) 
In November 2017, Applicant stopped taking prescription Zoloft, without the 
consent of his prescribing doctor. (SOR ¶ 1.d) He testified that he did discuss it with his 
doctor because he thought it was making his migraines worse and he was also 
experiencing sexual dysfunction. (Tr. 41 -42) In November or December 2019, he again 
discontinued taking Zoloft as prescribed. (SOR ¶ 1.f) Each time he informed his doctor he 
was not medicine compliant; his doctor encouraged him to continue taking it as 
prescribed. He also reported that he sometimes would stop taking his medication when 
on drill weekends because he was operating heavy machinery. (Tr. 43) He felt that the 
Zoloft conflicted with another medication he took for his traumatic brain injury called 
Zonegran, which he claimed is also used as an anti-depressant. (Tr. 44) 
In January or February 2019, Applicant again stopped taking his prescribed 
psychotropic medications. (SOR ¶ 1.e) He “fell off the back of a truck while on military 
duty” and experienced more intensified migraines and light sensitivity. He also got a letter 
from the VA with an initial disability rating of 0%. About that same time, his grandfather, 
cousin, and another Soldier he knew passed away. Treatment records from May 2019 
note that Applicant screened negative for “lifetime history of mania.” (GE 3 at 
3 
  
 
  
    
 
  
 
 
   
  
             
   
  
 
   
     
  
      
  
     
  
    
  
    
  
   
 
  
   
    
    
   
 
      
   
  
 
700)  A note from his treating psychiatrist  on September  27, 2019, reflected “Pt. relates  
he  self-discontinued  all  psychotropic  medications  about  x3/4  months  ago.  Pt.  elaborates  
he stopped taking the  medications because he felt like he was doing better and didn't  
need them.” (GE 3 at 144, 672) The psychiatrist again prescribed him Zoloft and noted in  
the diagnostic impressions that “Pt. appears to be an unreliable historian.” He was again  
diagnosed with depressive disorder,  unspecified. (GE 3 at 675)  
Applicant chose to go off his medication for “a few days” which resulted in an 
attempted suicide in November or December 2019. On that occasion, he ran a hose to 
his vehicle’s exhaust system so that it dispersed carbon monoxide into the cabin of the 
vehicle. (SOR ¶ 1.g) His wife discovered him in the driveway and his suicide attempt was 
not successful. (Tr. 46-47, 89-91) 
In March or April 2020, Applicant stopped taking prescription Zoloft for about a 
month, without the consent of his prescribing doctor. He testified that this was a result of 
the supply-chain disruption at the VA that occurred during COVID19. (SOR ¶ 1.h) (Tr. 92; 
GE 3 at 793) 
On February 5, 2021, Applicant was prescribed 100 MG Zoloft. (Ex 2 at 114) It was 
about this time that he stopped treatment with his licensed clinical social worker, JE, and 
returned to the VA for treatment. (Tr. 100-101, GE 3; AE D) 
Since 2015, Applicant has visited the VA monthly for medical treatment. In 2023, 
he obtained treatment for sleep apnea. He also has limited his consumption of Monster 
energy drinks. (GE 3 at 591, 608) Applicant has also received mental health treatment at 
the VA. However, it would often be six months from the time he requested an appointment 
to the date of the session, and frequently it would be with a new doctor. (Tr. 51) The week 
prior to the hearing he visited his primary care doctor who ordered a consult on mental 
health. (Tr. 54- 55) He is not currently prescribed any psychotropic medications. He 
claimed he has not had any thoughts of self -harm in the past five years. He copes with 
stress by journaling, fishing, and enjoying nature. He is close to his family and extended 
family. (Tr. 57) 
On May 31, 2023, Applicant was evaluated for suicide risk. Medical records reflect 
that he “has current thoughts of engaging in suicide- related behavior” and explained, 
“They come and go, its not an every day thing, its mainly when I think too much, or 
remember certain things that trigger memor[y], things that happened in the past.” He was 
diagnosed with PTSD. (GE 3 at 343-348, 399, 487; Tr. 96-100) 
On August 18, 2023, Applicant was evaluated at the request of the DOD by a 
psychologist. (SOR ¶ 1.j) Applicant met with the psychologist (Dr. B) once online. In her 
report, the Dr. B opined: 
I  also  have  concern  about  his  stability  without  ongoing  treatment.  It  is  clear  
that  he  possesses  a  condition  that  could  impede  his  judgment,  
4 
  
 
  
    
          
     
   
  
 
    
    
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
     
  
   
   
  
    
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
trustworthiness, and reliability in the future. His  prognosis is guarded unless  
he returns to regular treatment for  bipolar  II disorder. (GE  2)  
Out of the 885 pages of evidence submitted by the Government, there are three 
mentions of a diagnosis of bipolar affective disorder. In his medical records on August 2, 
2017, bipolar disorder was identified as a “rule out diagnosis” due to Applicant’s “lack of 
sleep and mood instability.” On August 2, 2017, the entry appears to be tied to a 
diagnostic clinical interview that was to be consolidated into a “Comprehensive report with 
background information, tests results, and summary/impressions will be available 
following completion of testing.” (GE 3 at 789, 862) Further, treatment records in evidence 
reflect no diagnosis of hypomania. (145, 653, 673, 701-702) 
The diagnosis of bipolar II disorder, in remission is only found in the Dr. B’s report, 
which noted the two prior references. She stated: 
Also of note, the applicant was previously  treated only for depression;  
however, it seems  the  applicant is actually suffering from  a bipolar disorder,  
which includes both  depressive and hypomanic episodes.  Bipolar II  
disorder is a chronic condition that is known to wax and wane over time.  
Without ongoing psychiatric/psychological treatment, there is a high risk of  
relapse for either depressive or hypomanic episodes. I feel strongly  that  he  
should be treated for bipolar disorder. It is  also worth noting that  some 
medications prescribed for seizures are also effective for  managing bipolar  
disorder symptoms. (GE 2 at 6)  
S
he found “hypomanic symptoms” citing “a decreased need for sleep, increased 
goal directed activities, racing thoughts, and increased energy levels.” (GE 2 at 3) In 
September 2023, Applicant’s diagnosis was anxiety and cognitive communication defect. 
(GE 3 at 487) He testified that he last met with a psychotherapist in April 2024. (AE J; Tr. 
108) He is not currently taking any mental health medications. He is sleeping better since 
starting treatments for sleep apnea. (AE L; Tr. 109) In 2024, he participated in cognitive 
communication therapy with a speech pathologist that focused on “functional 
compensatory strategy used to improve cognition, specifically, organization, prospective 
memory, attention, concentration, learning, memory and cognitive flexibility.” (AE L) 
W
hole  Person  
Applicant has been awarded the State Active Duty Service Ribbon twice, the 
Humanitarian Services Medal, and the Army Reserve Component Achievement Medal. 
His performance evaluation reflects that “his technical/tactical proficiency is unmatched.” 
He was part of a team that received recognition as the “Component Team winner” for 
resolving a video teleconference problem at work. He also received a spot bonus in 
October 2024 for his role in resolving that problem. He runs a suicide awareness program 
for the National Guard and helps with his children’s sports. (AE C, AE F, AE G at 30, AE 
H; Tr. 31, 33, 56) 
5 
  
   
    
 
 
  
 
 
 
     
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
Applicant also presented a letter of recommendation from his IT Director that 
reflects he is a valued team member and has excellent work quality, timeliness, and 
dedication to meeting the command objectives. He also presented a letter of 
recommendation from his now retired Army National Guard platoon leader. He is 
recognized for his ability to make ethical, clear, and concise decisions. He is said to have 
unmatched technical skills. (AE I) 
Diagnostic  and  Statistical  Manual  of  Mental  Disorders,  Fifth  Edition  (DSM-5)  
The DSM-5 is the standard classification of mental disorders used by mental health 
professionals in the United States. Department Counsel produced the DSM entry for 
bipolar and related disorders for administrative notice. The following is the definition of 
hypomanic episode from the DSM-5 that was part of the submitted excerpt: 
A.  A distinct period of abnormally and persistently elevated,  
expansi
ve, or irritable mood and abnormally and persistently increased  
activity or energy, lasting at least 4 consecutive days  and present  most  of  
the day, nearly  every  day.  
B.  During the period of mood disturbance and increased energy and  
acti
vity, three (or  more) of  the following symptoms  have persisted  (four if  
the mood is only irritable), represent a  noticeable change from usual  
behavior, and have been present to a significant  degree:  
1.  Inflated  self-est eem  or  grandiosity.  
2.  Decreased need for sleep (e.g.,  feels r ested after  
only  3 hours of  sleep).  
3.  More talkative than usual or pressure to keep  
talki
ng.  
4.  Flight  of ideas or subjective experience that  
thought
s are racing.  
5.  Distractibility (i.e., attention too easily drawn to  
unimport
ant or irrelevant external stimuli, as  reported  
or observed.  
6.  Increase in goal -direct ed activity (either socially, at  
work or school, or sexually) or psychomotor  agitation.  
7.  Excess
ive involvement in activities that have a high 
potential for painful consequences (e.g., engaging in 
unrestrained buying sprees, sexual indiscretions, or 
foolish business investments). 
C.  The episode is  asso
 ciated with an unequivocal change in  
functioning that is  uncharacteristic of the individual when not  
symptomatic.  
D.  The disturbance in mood and the change  in fu nctioning are  
observable by others.  
E.  The episode is not severe enough to cause marked impairment in   
socia
l   or   occupational   functioning   or   to   necessitate  
6 
  
 
 
    
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
   
           
   
  
 
    
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
hospitalization.  If  there  are  psychotic  features,  the  episode  is,  by 
definition, manic.  
F.  The episode is not attributable to the physiological effects  of a  
subs
tance (e.g., a drug of abuse, a medication or other treatment).  
Note: A
 full hypomanic episode that emerges during antidepressant 
treatment (e.g., medication, electroconvulsive therapy) but persists at a fully 
syndromal level beyond the physiological effect of that treatment is sufficient 
evidence for a hypomanic episode diagnosis. However, caution is indicated 
so that one or two symptoms (particularly increased irritability, edginess, or 
agitation following antidepressant use) are not taken as sufficient for 
cyanosis of a hypomanic episode, nor necessarily indicative of a bipolar 
diathesis. 
Policies  
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DoD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG), which became 
effective on June 8, 2017. 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, whic h are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, re liable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
7 
  
 
 
  
      
        
  
   
   
 
    
  
  
 
 
             
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis 
Guideline I: Psychological Conditions  
The security concern for psychological conditions is set out in AG ¶ 27: 
Certain emotional, mental, and personality  conditions can impair  judgment,  
reliability, or trustworthiness. A formal diagnosis of a disorder is  not required  
for there to be a concern under this guideline.  A duly qualified mental  health  
professional (e.g., clinical psychologist or  psychiatrist) employed by, or  
acceptable  to and approved by the U.S. Government, should be consulted  
when evaluating potentially disqualifying and mitigating information under  
this guideline and an opinion, including prognosis, should be sought. No  
negative inference concerning the standards in this guideline may be raised  
solely on the basis  of  mental health counseling.  
AG ¶ 28 provides conditions that could raise psychological conditions security 
concerns. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a)  behavior that casts  doubt  on 
 an individual’s judgment, stability,  
reliability, or trustworthiness, not covered under any other guideline and that  
may indicate an emotional,  mental,  or personality condition, including, but  
not limited to, irresponsible, violent, self -harm,  suicidal, paranoid,  
manipulative, impulsive, chronic lying, deceitful, exploitative,  or bizarre  
behaviors;  
(b)  an opi
nion by a duly qualified mental health professional that the 
individual has a condition that may impair judgment, stability, reliability, or 
trustworthiness; 
8 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
        
    
 
     
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
     
  
   
 
     
        
 
  
  
  
   
               
 
               
 
  
         
  
   
(c)  voluntary  or  i nvoluntary  inpatient  hospitalization;  and  
(d)  fai
lure to follow a prescribed treatment plan related to a diagnosed 
psychological/psychiatric condition that may impair judgment, stability, 
reliability, or trustworthiness, including, but not limited to, failure to take 
prescribed medication or failure to attend required counseling sessions. 
AG  ¶¶  28(
a)  and  28(c)  
Appl
icant attempted suicide four times, in January 2017, July 2017, August 2017, 
and in December 2019. (SOR ¶¶ 1.b, 1.c, and 1.g) He had suicidal ideations in between 
2017 and 2021, as reflected in his licensed clinical social worker’s records. (SOR ¶ 1.i) 
He was hospitalized in August 2017 after suicidal ideations. (SOR ¶ 1.a) AG ¶¶ 28(a) and 
28(c) are applicable. 
AG  ¶ 28(b)  
AG ¶ 28(b) requires 1) an opinion by a duly qualified mental health professional 
that the individual has a condition; and 2) that the condition may impair judgment, stability, 
reliability, or trustworthiness. 
The first step in analyzing the applicability of AG ¶ 28 (and subsequently the 
mitigating conditions in AG ¶ 29), is to identify what condition is said to raise concerns 
under this guideline. There are three different diagnoses alleged in the SOR including 
depressive disorder, bipolar II disorder – in remission, and unspecified anxiety disorder. 
Applicant’s medical records reflect various diagnoses including the three alleged 
conditions. In 2015 he was diagnosed with adjustment disorder with anxiety. In 2016 he 
was diagnosed with insomnia and depressive episodes. In 2017 he was diagnosed with 
depressive disorder and PTSD. In 2019 his diagnosis was depressive disorder, 
unspecified. In August 2023, Dr. B diagnosed him with bipolar II disorder – in remission, 
and unspecified anxiety disorder. In September 2023, Applicant’s diagnosis was anxiety 
and cognitive communication defect. He has had multiple providers, and each provider 
seems to have diagnosed him differently based on their knowledge and how he presented 
to them. My analysis of the disqualifying conditions is limited to those conditions alleged 
in the SOR: depressive disorder, bipolar II disorder, and unspecified anxiety disorder. 
In this case, DOD hired Dr. B to assess Applicant. Dr. B diagnosed Applicant with 
bipolar II, which she believed was a condition that could impede his judgment, 
trustworthiness, and reliability in the future, even though it is in remission. Of note is that 
Dr. B failed to specify whether it was in partial or full remission. Technically, her opinion 
meets this disqualifying criterion. As established in ISCR Case No. 20- 01838 at 6, n.3 
(App. Bd. Dec. 29, 2022), bipolar disorder is a condition that, by its very nature, raises a 
security concern. However, Dr. B’s bipolar II diagnosis is inconsistent with his other 
treatment providers’ diagnoses. The providers in the past did not document diagnosis of 
9 
  
  
   
    
   
 
  
   
  
    
           
 
  
   
  
  
 
  
   
    
  
 
    
  
             
    
   
 
   
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
           
          
  
bipolar disorder or a hypomanic episode even though he was tested for it in August 2017. 
While Dr. B is a psychologist with a doctorate in psychology and has higher level 
educational training than that of the treating licensed clinical social worker JE, JE has met 
with Applicant 30 times over five years. Dr. B reviewed his treatment records and had one 
short video teleconference with Applicant. JE’s diagnosis of depression is also supported 
by treating psychiatrists, who are medical doctors. It also appears that JE’s diagnosis was 
confirmed by the neuropsychological testing. Dr. B also failed to articulate what about the 
medical records caused her to find “hypomanic symptoms” other than citing “a decreased 
need for sleep, increased goal directed activities, racing thoughts, and increased energy 
levels.” She does not appear to look at the totality of his treatment records. For instance, 
she cites a decreased need for sleep in her analysis, when his sleep problems were 
eventually diagnosed as sleep apnea. His energetic bursts appear to be related to heavy 
use of Monster, an energy drink with high amounts of caffeine. As a result of reviewing 
the record in its entirety, I do not find that the evidence presented supports application of 
this disqualifying condition with respect to bipolar II disorder, in remission. 
Anxiety and depressive disorder, however, are not typically conditions that raise a 
security concern. ISCR Case No. 22- 00396 at 7, n.2 (App. Bd. October 17, 2024). 
Conditions like depressive disorder and anxiety, may require elaboration by the mental 
health professional as to how the condition may impair the individual’s judgment, stability, 
reliability, or trustworthiness. In this case, however, his anxiety and depression 
manifested in suicide attempts and suicidal ideation. While he has not had a suicide 
attempt since 2019, he did have suicidal ideations as recently as 2023. In this instance, 
his anxiety and depression which have led to self-harm or thoughts of self-harm indicate 
that he has a condition that has impaired his judgment, stability, reliability, or 
trustworthiness in the past and those conditions remain a concern. AG ¶ 28(b) is 
applicable. 
AG  ¶ 28(d)  
Applicant also has failed to follow his prescribed treatment plan by inconsistently 
taking Zoloft, the medication he has been prescribed multiple times. AG ¶ 28(d) is 
applicable. 
AG ¶ 29 provides conditions that could mitigate psychological conditions security 
concerns. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a)  the identified condition is readily controllable with treatment, and the  
i
ndividual has demonstrated ongoing and consistent compliance with the  
treatment plan;  
(b)  the i
ndividual has voluntarily entered a counseling or treatment 
program for a condition that is amenable to treatment, and the individual is 
currently receiving counseling or treatment with a favorable prognosis by a 
duly qualified mental health professional; 
10 
  
 
 
 
  
 
    
 
   
  
 
     
  
 
  
   
 
    
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
      
 
 
 
           
(c)  recent opinion by a duly qualified mental health professional  em ployed  
by, or acceptable to and approved by, the U.S. Government that  an  
individual’s  previous condition is under control or in remission,  and has  a  
low probability of recurrence or  exacerbation;  
(d)  the past psychological/psychiatric condition was  t emporary, the  
situation has been resolved, and the individual no longer shows  indications  
of emotional instability; and  
(e)  there  is  no  indication  of  a  current  problem.  
None
 of the mitigating conditions, individually or collectively, are sufficient to 
mitigate Applicant’s diagnoses of depression and anxiety with concomitant suicide 
attempts and suicidal ideations. His psychological conditions appear tied to his head 
injuries (potential TBI), epilepsy, and cognitive problems. While he is receiving cognitive 
therapy from a speech therapist, he did not present enough information to establish that 
his psychological problems or judgment issues are under control. Applicant has the 
burden of establishing evidence of mitigation and did not produce enough documentation 
to establish there is a low probability of recurrence. His depression and anxiety may 
potentially be controllable with treatment, but he has failed to show he has followed an 
established treatment plan. He did not offer a favorable prognosis into the record. Instead, 
his history of treatment from 2015 to present shows inconsistent compliance with 
prescribed medications. Without more evidence of a favorable prognosis or other 
supporting mitigation, I cannot find there is no longer a problem. Considering his long 
history of suicidal ideation and attempts, not enough time has passed to support full 
mitigation at this time. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) The nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
11 
  
  
  
   
 
   
   
    
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
 
   
         
 
 
 
 
  
consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. I have incorporated my 
comments under Guideline I in my whole- person analysis. I also considered Applicant’s 
favorable character evidence. Applicant performs well at work and is highly regarded for 
his expertise. He performs community service and supports his fellow Soldiers. He has 
dedicated his life to serving the United States and has experienced a number of life-
changing events because of his willingness to serve. Unfortunately, those events have 
impacted his mental health and at this time, there is not enough evidence to support 
mitigation. 
Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts about 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. I conclude Applicant did not 
mitigate the security concerns under Guideline I. 
Formal  Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline I:  
 Against  Applicant  
Against  Applicant  
Subparagraphs  1.a-1.i:  
Subparagraph  1.j:  For  Applicant  
Conclusion  
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to continue Applicant’s eligibility 
for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Jennifer I. Goldstein 
Administrative Judge 
12 