                                                         
 
                                                                                                                    
          
           
             
 
 
 
    
  
       
   
  
   
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
    
   
  
    
    
   
  
      
   
    
  
 
  
______________ 
______________ 
DEPART
MENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 23-01403 
Appearances  
For Government: Andrea Corrales, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Dak Kees, Esq. 
04/17/2025 
Decision 
HOGAN, Erin C., Administrative Judge: 
On August 15, 2023, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) 
to Applicant detailing the security concerns under Guideline H, Drug Involvement. The 
action was taken under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information 
within Industry (February 20, 196 0), as amended; Department of Defense Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) implemented within 
the Department of Defense on June 8, 2017. 
On November 13, 2023, Applicant answered the SOR and requested a hearing 
before an administrative judge. The case was assigned to me on September 3, 2024. On 
November 5, 2024, a Notice of Hearing was issued, scheduling the hearing on January 
8, 2025. The hearing was held as scheduled. During the hearing, the Government offered 
one exhibit, which was admitted without objection as Government (GE) Exhibit 1. The 
Government requested that administrative notice be taken of a state marijuana statute. 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
      
 
         
 
 
 
     
  
 
  
 
  
    
  
 
  
  
  
   
    
 
   
   
   
  
  
    
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
    
The request was granted. Applicant testified, called four witnesses and offered 14 
exhibits, which were admitted without objection as Applicant Exhibits (AE) A - O. The 
transcript was received on January 17, 2024. Based upon a review of the case file, 
pleadings, and exhibits, eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Findings of Fact  
In his answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted the allegations in the SOR. 
Applicant is a 27-year-old employee of a DOD contractor who seeks to maintain a 
security clearance. He was first granted a security clearance in July 2021 when he worked 
as a civilian employee for the military (Employer A) in another state. He has been 
employed with his current employer (Employer B) since February 2023. He has no active 
military service. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2021 and a master’s degree in 2024. 
He is single and has no children. (GE 1; Tr. 8, 13, 20-23; GE 2; AE C; AE E; AE O; AE V; 
AE W) 
(Note: The facts in this decision do not specifically describe employment, names 
of witnesses, or locations in order to protect Applicant’s and his family’s privacy. The cited 
sources contain more specific information.) 
Under the drug involvement security concern, the SOR alleged Applicant used 
marijuana with varying frequency from about March 2022 to about October 2022, while 
possessing a security clearance. (SOR ¶ 1.a:  GE 1 at 44, 46) It was also alleged that 
Applicant expressed an intent to use marijuana in the future on his January 3, 2023, 
Electronic Questionnaire for Investigations Processing (e-QIP). (SOR ¶ 1.b: GE 1 at 44) 
On January 3, 2023, Applicant completed an Electronic Questionnaire for 
Investigations Processing (e- QIP). In response to Section 23 – Illegal Use of Drugs or 
Drug Activity, he answered “yes” to the question, “In the last seven (7) years have you 
illegally used any drugs or controlled substances?” he answered, “yes.”  He listed that he 
used THC (marijuana) edibles about four times from March 2022 to October 2022. This 
was the first time he tried marijuana edibles. He was employed by Employer A and had 
an active security clearance during the period that he used marijuana edibles. (AE 1 at 
44; 46) At the time he used marijuana, it was illegal in the state where he used it. (Admin 
Not 1) Marijuana remains illegal under federal law. 
The January 2023 e- QIP application also asked Applicant about whether he 
intended to use marijuana in the future. He responded: 
I intend to move to an area where edibles are legal, so I may intend to 
continue taking them in the future.  (GE 1 at 44) 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
   
 
    
     
 
  
  
  
  
    
 
   
   
  
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
     
 
  
   
   
  
  
 
    
    
During the hearing, Applicant testified that he wanted to be truthful and forthcoming 
on his e-QIP when he expressed his future intent to use marijuana. He did not understand 
the difference between state and federal law. He now understands and does not int end 
to use marijuana in the future. He states that he is not a marijuana user. If given the 
opportunity, he would change or reword his answer regarding his future intent to use 
marijuana. He has no intention of using marijuana under any circumstances. (Tr. 14-16) 
Applicant indicated his use of marijuana edibles from March 2022 to October 2022 
on approximately four occasions w ere the only times he used marijuana. He ingested 
marijuana edibles at social gatherings with friends. He does not consider himself to be an 
avid or habitual drug user. His marijuana use was experimental. Before the SOR was 
issued, he did not understand the consequences of using marijuana while working and 
holding a security clearance. He believed it was something he could experiment with. He 
used marijuana when he worked for Employer A and had a secret security clearance. 
This was his first job after graduating from college and it was his first time away from his 
family for an extended period of time. In hindsight, he would have never consumed 
marijuana. It was not worth it. He believes he is trustworthy and has good judgment. (Tr. 
17-21) 
Under cross-examination, the Government’s counsel asked Applicant the following 
question: 
So,  you haven’t used marijuana since October of 2022. Is  that correct?  
(Tr. 27)  
Applicant answered: 
I decline to answer that question. (Tr. 27) 
After closing arguments, Applicant’s counsel was given time off the record to 
discuss with Applicant about whether he should answer the question regarding if he used 
marijuana since October 2022. Applicant still declined to answer this question.  (Tr. 59) 
On September 6, 2023, Applicant signed a statement of intent to remain free from 
all drugs, including marijuana, and to refrain from any alleged substance abuse. He 
acknowledged any future involvement with drugs or misuse of the same will be grounds 
for revocation of my security clearance and any national security clearance eligibility. He 
agreed to submit to random urinalysis inspections. (AE C) 
Applicant underwent drug tests on August 23, 2023, September 6, 2023, 
September 21, 2023, October 6, 2023, October 20, 2023, and November 11, 2023.  All 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
      
     
    
  
   
  
 
   
   
 
   
   
    
    
    
 
 
   
     
 
  
 
 
    
 
      
tests were negative for drugs. On November 14, 2024, Applicant’s hair follicles were 
tested for marijuana. The tests were negative for drugs. (AE D) 
On September 20, 2023, Applicant underwent a drug and alcohol evaluation at a 
center that has an accredited substance abuse counseling program. The material used 
to determine and assess his alcohol and drug behavior included a clinical interview, which 
uses the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual for Mental Disorders (DSM V) criteria for 
substance abuse and mental health disorders. The clinician also reviewed Applicant’s 
past history of drug and alcohol use. The results revealed that Applicant’s infrequency 
and amount of current drug and alcohol consumption does not meet the DSM -V criteria 
for substance use disorder. No additional treatment was recommended. (AE E) 
Whole-Person Factors  
Several of Applicant’s supervisors in his current job testified on his behalf. Mr. B. 
is a group supervisor. He supervises over 50 employees. Applicant has been in his group 
for close to two years. Applicant does not report to him directly. He sees him on a weekly 
basis. He is aware of the SOR allegations. He meets with Applicant’s direct supervisor 
every other week. Applicant is known as an excellent employee. He is attentive to details, 
communicates effectively and is very professional. (Tr 30-35) 
Mr. M. is Applicant’s direct supervisor. He has held a top-secret security clearance 
since January 2013. He first met Applicant during Applicant’s job interview in November 
2022. He started working in the Spring 2023, and Mr. M. became his supervisor in the fall 
2023. He interacts with him daily. He is aware that the security concerns in Applicant’s 
case involve drug use. He has spoken with him numerous times over the past six months 
about the security clearance proceeding. He has kept a good attitude. He s tates that 
Applicant is a very valuable member of his department, and he does not want to lose him. 
He is very enthusiastic about his work. He is very trustworthy and honest , and he highly 
respects him. He considers him one of the best and brightest of the young employees. 
(Tr. 39-47) 
Mr. G.M. has held a top-secret security clearance for over a decade. He shares an 
office with Applicant. He sees him every day. Applicant told him about his past marijuana 
use. He is not proud of it. Mr. G.M. trusts Applicant implicitly. He is extremely competent 
and very responsible. He takes security very seriously. (Tr. 48-51) 
Applicant’s sister testified on his behalf. She is very close to him and considers 
him to be one of her best friends. She spoke with him about his past marijuana use. He 
is heartbroken about his past marijuana use. He is passionate about his job. She testified 
that he does not currently use drugs. She was never present during Applicant’s drug 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
    
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
     
  
  
      
   
 
 
 
    
 
  
     
      
 
 
 
   
      
  
  
 
        
     
  
   
     
 
   
 
usage but is aware that he used marijuana during the summer of 2022. She believes his 
last use of marijuana occurred in October 2022. (Tr. 53 – 58) 
Applicant submitted several character letters from family members, friends, and 
work colleagues. All of whom attest to his outstanding work ethic, character, reliability and 
trustworthiness. (AE K) 
Applicant’s performance appraisal during the 2022 rating period was rated “A” 
which is the highest level. (AE I) In August 2023, he received a Peer Recognition Award 
for going above and beyond to train and educate a summer intern. (AE J) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant ’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are useful in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical , and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel. . . .” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
    
        
     
    
 
  
 
    
   
 
 
    
 
   
  
   
  
  
 
     
 
 
   
   
 
 
  
 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as 
to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of E O 10865 provides that decisions shall be “in terms of the national 
interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
DOD and Federal Government Policy on Marijuana Use  
On October 25, 2014, the Director for National Intelligence, issued a memorandum 
titled, “Adherence to Federal Laws Prohibiting Marijuana Use,” addressing concerns 
raised by the decriminalization of marijuana use in several states and the District of 
Columbia. The memorandum states that changes to state and local laws do not alter the 
existing National Security Adjudicative Guidelines. “An individual’s disregard for federal 
law pertaining the use, sale, or manufacture of marijuana remains adjudicatively relevant 
in national security determinations.” 
On May 26, 2015, the Director of the United States Office of Personnel 
Management (OPM) issued a memorandum titled, “Federal Laws and Policies Prohibiting 
Marijuana Use.” The Director of OPM acknowledged that several jurisdictions have 
decriminalized the use of marijuana, allowing the use of marijuana for medicinal purposes 
and/or for limited recreational use, but states that Federal law on marijuana remains 
unchanged. Marijuana is categorized as a controlled substance under Schedule I of the 
Controlled Substances Act. Thus, knowing or intentional marijuana possession is illegal, 
even if the individual has no intent to manufacture, distribute, or dispense marijuana. 
On December  21, 2021, the Director of National Intelligence signed the  
memorandum,  Security Executive Agent Clarifying Guidance Concerning Marijuana for  
Agencies Conducting Adjudications of Persons Proposed for Eligibility for Access to  
Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position.  It emphasizes that federal  
law remains unchanged with respect to the illegal use,  possession, production,  and  
distribution of  marijuana. Individuals who hold a clearance or occupy a sensitive position  
are prohibited by law from using controlled substances. Disregard of  federal law  
pertaining to marijuana (including prior recreational  marijuana use) remains relevant, but  
not  determinative, to adjudications  of  eligibility. Agencies are required to use the “whole-
person concept” stated under SEAD 4, to determine whether the applicant’s behavior  
raises a security concern that has not been mitigated.  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
  
  
  
     
  
  
    
   
  
  
  
 
    
 
  
 
   
 
     
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
    
 
   
 
   
Guideline  H, Drug Involvement  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Drug Involvement is set out in AG 
¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription drug and non -prescription drugs, and the use of other 
substances that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a 
manner inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about 
an individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior 
may lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any “controlled substance” as 
defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in 
this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
The guideline notes several disqualifying conditions that could raise security 
concerns. I find the following drug involvement disqualifying conditions apply to 
Applicant’s case. 
AG ¶ 25(a) any substance misuse; 
AG ¶ 2 5(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance, including 
cultivation, processing, manufacture, purchase, sale, or distribution; or 
possession of drug paraphernalia; and 
AG ¶ 25(f) any illegal drug use while granted access to classified information 
or holding a sensitive position; and 
AG ¶ 25(g) expressed intent to continue drug involvement and substance 
misuse, or failure to clearly and convincingly commit to discontinue such 
misuse. 
The SOR alleges and Applicant admits he used marijuana from approximately 
March 2022 to October 2022, while possessing a security clearance. Marijuana use was 
illegal in the state where he used it and he is aware that marijuana use remains illegal 
under federal law. There is sufficient evidence to conclude that Applicant illegally used 
and possessed marijuana. AG ¶ 25(a), AG ¶ 25(c) and AG ¶ 25(f) apply. 
AG ¶ 25(g) applies because Applicant indicated on his January 2023 e- QIP 
application that he intended to move to an area where marijuana edibles are legal so he 
could continue taking them in the future. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
     
    
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
   
 
     
  
 
  
 
  
 
     
 
 
   
   
  
    
  
 
       
    
  
 
 
   
   
 
The Government’s substantial evidence and Applicant’s own admissions raise 
security concerns under Guideline H, Drug Involvement. The burden shifted to Applicant 
to produce evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the security concerns. 
(Directive ¶ E3.1.15) An applicant has the burden of proving a mitigating condition, and 
the burden of disproving it never shifts to the Government. (See ISCR Case No. 02-31154 
at 5 (App. Bd. September 22, 2005)) 
Guideline H also includes examples of conditions that could mitigate security 
concerns arising from drug involvement. The following mitigating conditions potentially 
apply to the Applicant’s case: 
AG ¶ 26(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or 
occurred under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does not 
cast doubt on the individual ’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good 
judgment; and 
AG ¶ 26(b) the individual acknowledges his or her drug involvement and 
substance misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this 
problem, and has established a pattern of abstinence, including, but not 
limited to: (1) disassociation from drug- using associates and contacts; (2) 
changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were used; and (3) 
providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug involvement 
and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future involvement or 
misuse is grounds for revocation of national security eligibility. 
AG ¶ 26(a) does not apply. I cannot conclude Applicant’s marijuana use happened 
so long ago and is unlikely to recur because he refused to answer the question about 
whether he used marijuana after October 2022. Applicants are expected to be truthful 
and honest during security clearance proceedings at all times. His failure to answer this 
question prevents me from concluding that his marijuana use was in the past and unlikely 
to recur. It also raises doubt about Applicant’s current reliability, trustworthiness, and good 
judgment. I cannot conclude he is serious his intentions to refrain from illegal marijuana 
use. 
AG ¶ 26(b) partially applies because Applicant acknowledged his illegal drug use 
and signed a statement of intent indicating he will not use marijuana in the future. He 
acknowledged any future illegal use could result in the revocation of his security 
clearance. However, this mitigating condition is given less weight because he refused to 
answer the question about whether he used marijuana after October 2022. It lessens the 
weight of his statement of intent to refrain from future marijuana use and raises questions 
about his trustworthiness and reliability. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Applicant  did not meet  his burden to mitigate the security concerns raised under 
Guideline H, Drug Involvement.    
 
 
  
    
       
   
 
 
  
 
     
 
             
   
  
  
   
    
    
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
    
    
     
 
 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under
 the whole- person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(a): 
 (1 ) the nature,  extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5)  the  extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.   
Under
 AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a security 
clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the Applicant’s performance awards and favorable character 
references. He is highly thought of by his supervisor, friends, co -workers and family 
members. If Applicant had answered the question about whether he has used marijuana 
since October 2022, he might have mitigated the security concerns under Guideline H. 
Instead, it raises additional questions and concerns regarding his failure to cooperate 
during his security clearance background investigation. When he started using marijuana, 
he did not think it was a big deal and did not think that he would be severely punished for 
it. His failure to take seriously the prohibition against marijuana use for DOD employees 
and persons with access to classified information and employed in sensitive positions 
raise questions about his ability to follow the rules to protect classified or sensitive 
information. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions as well as the 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. Applicant is an accomplished young man 
and has a lot to offer. However, I cannot ignore his refusal to answer the question about 
whether he used marijuana after October 2022. It raises questions about his reliability 
and trustworthiness. The security concerns under Drug Involvement are not mitigated. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
    
 
   
 
     
  
 
      
       
      
 
                                                
 
 
 
 
 
 
_________________ 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  Guideline H:    
AG
AINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a  –  1.b:   Against Applicant 
Conc
lusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
ERIN C. HOGAN 
Administrative Judge 
10 