 
 
 
 
 
               
 
                
  DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
     DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS  
           
    
             
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
      
     
    
     
  
    
 
 
"'L 09i~ .t!J~ 0 
"' ;:. "tr 
00 
"" 
______________ 
______________ 
In  the matter  of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR Case No.  23-02231  
  )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance  )  
Appearances  
For Gov
ernment: Carroll J. Connelley, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
05/02/2025 
Decision  
FOREMAN, LeRoy F., Administrative Judge: 
This case involves security concerns raised under Guideline F (Financial 
Considerations). Clearance is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on August 25, 2022. 
On December 11, 2023, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA sent her a Statement of Reasons (SOR) 
alleging security concerns under Guideline F. The DCSA acted under Executive Order 
(Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 
1960), as amended; Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial 
Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended 
(Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) promulgated in Security Executive Agent 
Directive 4, National Security Adjudicative Guidelines (December 10, 2016), which 
became effective on June 8, 2017. 
1 
 
 
 
 
   
 
       
 
  
    
  
 
    
   
 
   
  
 
 
   
        
 
 
       
     
 
 
 
  
   
    
  
 
        
        
     
 
 
     
      
   
      
     
Applicant answered the SOR on July 14, 2024, and requested a hearing before an 
administrative judge. Department Counsel was ready to proceed on July 31, 2024. The 
case was assigned to me on February 25, 2025. On March 4, 2025, the Defense Office 
of Hearings and Appeals notified Applicant that the hearing was scheduled to be 
conducted by video teleconference on March 26, 2025. I convened the hearing as 
scheduled. Government Exhibits 1 through 13 were admitted in evidence without 
objection. 
Applicant testified but did not present the testimony of any other witnesses. She 
submitted Applicant’s Exhibits (AX) A through Q, which were admitted without objection. 
I kept the record open until April 9, 2025, to enable her to submit additional documentary 
evidence. She timely submitted AX R, which was admitted without objection. DOHA 
received the transcript on April 7, 2025. The record closed on April 9, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, she admitted all the allegations but denied the 
amount of the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.b. Her admissions are incorporated in my findings 
of fact. 
Applicant is a 57- year-old security officer employed by federal contractors since 
July 2002. She received a security clearance in May 2004. She has never married. She 
has two adult children. She received an associate degree in June 2015 and a bachelor’s 
degree in June 2017. 
Applicant testified that she grew up in a family that relied on public assistance, and 
she did not know much about financial planning. She has a long history of financial 
problems, which she discussed in affidavits executed in December 2004 (GX 10) and 
March 2005 (GX 11) in connection with earlier security investigations. 
Applicant had surgery for a torn Achilles tendon in May 2024, which made her 
unable to maintain the level of physical fitness required for her job. She had three surgical 
procedures. She was unable to work from September to December 2024. (Tr. 20-22, 31) 
The SOR alleges  17 delinquent debts  reflected in six credit reports  (GX  3 through  
8) and a n IRS notice  of payment due (GX  9).  When A pplicant  was  interviewed by a  
security investigator in June 2023,  she admitted that she had been mismanaging her  
money,  living beyond her means , and had 17 credit  cards. (GX 12 at 8)  She told the 
investigator that her  average monthly income was  $5,154 per  month, her monthly  
expenses were $1,851, and her monthly debt  payments were $1,445.  If her estimates  are  
accurate,  she has  a net monthly remainder of  $2,858.   
In April 2021, Applicant hired a debt -relief company to assist her in resolving her 
debts. The company charged her a negotiation fee of 20% of the enrolled indebtedness 
being handled. (AX B) She paid the company $730 per month from April through October 
2023. (Tr. 28-29) She testified that she was unable to make the agreed payments to the 
company after October 2023, because of her multiple surgeries and loss of income. The 
2 
 
 
 
   
    
   
 
 
   
 
     
   
    
       
 
    
   
  
       
    
 
   
 
      
  
 
 
    
    
 
   
     
     
 
   
   
      
    
 
    
  
    
  
 
 
    
     
company prepared a revised plan scheduled to begin in February 2025, providing for 
payments of $550 per month. As of the date of the hearing, Applicant ’s implementation 
of the plan had not begun because she had not made the first two monthly payments. (Tr. 
30-32) 
The evidence concerning the debts alleged in the SOR is summarized below. 
SOR ¶ 1.a: debt to insurance company placed for collection of $415. In 
Applicant’s answer to the SOR, she admitted this debt and testified that she was making 
payments on this debt. At the hearing, she submitted a document reflecting a payment 
agreement and a balance due of $138. (AX C) The debt is being resolved. (AX R at 2) 
SOR ¶ 1.b: debt to telecommunications company placed for collection of 
$1,810. This debt was for unreturned equipment. In Applica nt’s answer to the SOR she 
stated that the debt was reduced to $960 after she returned the equipment . After the 
hearing, she produced evidence that she was making monthly $200 payments. The debt 
is being resolved. (AX R at 3-4). 
SOR ¶ 1.c: credit-card debt charged off for $668. This debt has been referred 
to Applicant’s debt -relief company , but payments have not begun because 
implementation of the plan will not begin until she makes the first payments to the 
company. (AX B; Tr. 30). 
SOR ¶ 1.d: credit-card debt placed for collection of $ 740.  This debt has  been  
paid.  (AX R at 6)  
SOR ¶ 1.e: auto loan deficiency of $16,723 after repossession. This debt is not 
resolved. Applicant made a $300 payment on April 4, 2025, after the hearing. (AX R at 8) 
SOR ¶¶ 1.f, 1.g, and 1h: credit-card debts placed for collection of $747, $316,
and $ 696. Applicant made monthly payments to a collection agency for these debts, and 
they are now resolved. (AX E, F, G and R) 
SOR ¶ 1.i: auto loan deficiency of $23,988 after repossession. Applicant has 
referred this debt to her debt-relief company and is waiting for the company to negotiate 
a settlement, but she has not yet made the initial payments to the company to activate 
payment plans. The debt is not resolved. (Tr. 38) 
SOR ¶ 1.j: bank account debt charged off for $706. Applicant made a payment 
agreement in January 2024 to make six monthly payments. (AX J) She testified that she 
made all the agreed payments , but she did not provide documentation to support her 
testimony. (Tr. 40) 
SOR  ¶ 1.k: auto  loan deficiency after  repossession,  account charged off for  
$12,852.  This  debt is not resolved. (Tr.  41-42)  
SOR ¶ 1.l: credit-card debt placed for collection of $1,012. This debt has been 
paid. (Tr. 43; GX 13 at 2; AX D; AX R at 19) 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
     
    
  
 
     
     
 
  
       
 
     
   
     
  
  
    
      
    
 
 
      
  
  
     
    
  
      
 
 
   
   
    
   
      
    
 
     
  
  
   
   
   
 
SOR ¶ 1.m: bank account debt charged off  for $862.  This debt  has been paid.  
(AX A)   
SOR ¶ 1.n: medical bill placed for collection of $693. Applicant testified that 
she was making payments on this debt, but she provided no documentation of payments. 
(Tr. 48) 
SOR ¶ 1.o: collection account for $596. Applicant began making payments on 
this debt in July 2023. It has been paid. (AX K; AX R at 22) 
SOR ¶ 1.p: medical bill placed for collection of $500. Applicant began making 
payments on this debt in December 2022. It has been paid. (AX L) 
SOR ¶ 1.q: IRS debt for delinquent taxes of $7,267. This debt arose when 
Applicant’s employer was bought by another company, and she withdrew the funds in her 
401(k) retirement account but did not report them on her 2019 federal income tax return. 
She was provided with the form for reporting the 401(k) withdrawal , but she accidently 
discarded it. When she filed her federal income tax return in 2021, the IRS informed of 
her tax debt. She made a payment agreement providing for payment of $100 per month 
on the debt, which has been resolved by her monthly payments and diversion of her tax 
refunds. (GX 12 at 18; AX M; AX R at 25) 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
decision. An a dministrative judge must consider all available and reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
4 
 
 
 
 
   
   
    
   
  
 
   
   
 
    
   
  
    
 
   
   
  
 
   
       
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
   
  
  
 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865 
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant 
has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have 
established for issuing a clearance 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan at 531. Substantial 
evidence is “such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to 
support a conclusion in light of all the contrary evidence in the same record.” See I SCR 
Case No. 17- 04166 at 3 (App. Bd. Mar. 21, 2019) It is “less than the weight of the 
evidence, and the possibility of drawing two inconsistent conclusions from the evidence 
does not prevent [a Judge’s] finding from being supported by substantial evidence.” 
Consolo v. Federal Maritime Comm’n, 383 U.S. 607, 620 (1966). “Substantial evidence” 
is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. Washington Metro. Area 
Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines presume a nexus or 
rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria listed therein and 
an applicant’s security suitability. ISCR Case No. 15-01253 at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 20, 2016).  
Once the  G overnment establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive  ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of  proving a mitigating condition,  
and the burden of disproving it  never shifts to the  Government.  See  ISCR Case No.  02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep.  22,  2005).   
 
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly  consistent  
with the national interest to grant or continue  his security clearance.”  ISCR Case No.  01-
20700 at  3 (App. Bd.  Dec. 19, 2002).  “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  Egan  at 531.   
A
nalysis  
Guideline  F, Financial Considerations  
The security concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. . . . An individual who is financially 
overextended is at greater risk of having to engage in illegal or otherwise 
questionable acts to generate funds. . . . 
5 
 
 
 
    
    
   
  
   
   
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
       
   
This concern is broader than the possibility that a person might knowingly 
compromise classified information to raise money. It encompasses concerns about a 
person’s self-control, judgment, and other qualities essential to protecting classified 
information. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible, 
unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding classified information. See ISCR 
Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012). 
Applicant’s admissions and the evidence submitted at the hearing establish two 
disqualifying conditions under this guideline: 
AG  ¶ 19(a):  inability to  sa
 tisfy debts;  and 
AG  ¶ 19(c):   a history of not meeting financial  obl igations; and  
AG ¶ 19(f): failure to f ile or fraudulently filing annual Federal, state,  or  local 
income tax returns or failure to pay  annual Federal, state,  or local income  
tax as required.  
The fo
llowing mitigating conditions are potentially applicable: 
AG ¶  20(a): the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or  
occ
urred under  such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does not  
cast doubt on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good  
judgment;  
AG ¶  20(b):  the conditions that resulted in the financial  pr oblem were largely  
beyond the person's control (e.g., loss  of employment, a business
downturn, unexpected medical  emergency,  a death, divorce or  separation,  
clear victimization by  predatory lending practices,  or identity theft), and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
AG ¶ 20(c): the individual  has r eceived or is  receiving financial counseling  
for the problem from a  legitimate and credible source, such as  a non-profit 
credit counseling service, and there are clear indications that the problem  
is being resolved or is  under control;  
AG ¶ 20(d): the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- fai th effort to  
repay overdue creditors or otherwise resolve  debts;  and  
AG ¶ 20(g): the individual has made arrangements with the appropriate tax  
auth
ority to file or pay the amount  owed and is in compliance with those  
arrangements.  
AG ¶
 20(a) is not established. Applicant’s delinquent debts are recent, numerous, 
and were not incurred under circumstances making recurrence unlikely. 
AG ¶ 20(b) is not established. Applicant ’s medical problems were conditions 
largely beyond her control. However, she has not acted responsibly. Her delinquent debts 
6 
 
 
 
  
     
  
 
     
  
    
 
 
     
  
  
  
  
  
      
   
       
     
      
     
     
    
   
 
     
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
   
   
 
 
include three vehicle repossessions and numerous delinquent credit -card and other 
consumer accounts. She has admitted living beyond her means. Her tax debt was the 
product of carelessness and neglect. 
AG ¶ 20(c) is not established. Applicant’s debt-relief company negotiates 
settlement of debts for a substantial fee, but it does not provide the financial counseling 
contemplated by this mitigating condition. She would likely benefit from competent 
financial counseling. 
AG ¶ 20(d) is not established. A security clearance adjudication is an evaluation of 
an individual’s judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness. It is not a debt -collection 
procedure. ISCR Case No. 09- 02160 (App. Bd. Jun. 21, 2010.) The adjudicative 
guidelines do not require payments on all delinquent debts simultaneously, payment of 
debts alleged in the SOR first, or resolution of every debt alleged in the SOR. He or she 
need only establish a plan to resolve financial problems and take significant actions to 
implement the plan. See ISCR Case No. 07 -06482 at 2- 3 (App. Bd. May 21, 2008) . 
Applicant testified that her debt-relief company had a plan to resolve her remaining debts, 
but she provided no documentary evidence showing what debts were included in the plan. 
As of the date of the hearing, she had not activated her debt-relief company’s payment 
plan. She did not begin making payments on the debt of $16,723, alleged in SOR ¶ 1.e, 
until after the hearing. She claimed that the debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.j and 1.n were 
paid, but she provided no documentation to support her claim. An applicant who claims 
that a debt is resolved is expected to present documentary evidence supporting that 
claim. See ISCR Case No. 15-03363 at 2 (App. Bd. Oct. 19, 2016). 
AG ¶ 20(g) is established for the tax debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.q. Applicant 
established a payment plan for her delinquent taxes, complied with the plan, and has 
resolved the debt. 
Whole-Person  Analysis  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant a security 
clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. An administrative judge must evaluate 
an applicant’s security eligibility by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct and 
all the relevant circumstances. An administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.   
7 
 
 
 
      
   
    
   
      
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
      
 
     
 
     
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
     
 
  
 
 
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
I have incorporated my comments under Guideline F in my whole-person analysis 
and applied the adjudicative factors in AG ¶ 2(d). 
After weighing the disqualifying and mitigating conditions under Guideline F, and 
evaluating all the evidence in the context of the whole person, I conclude Applicant has 
not mitigated the security concerns raised by her delinquent debts. 
Formal Findings  
I make the following formal findings on the allegations in the SOR: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline F (Financial Considerations):  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a and 1.b:  For Applicant  
Subparagraph 1.c: Against Applicant  
Subparagraph 1.d:  For Applicant  
Subparagraph 1.e:  Against Applicant  
Subparagraphs  1.f, 1.g, and 1.h:  For Applicant  
Subparagraphs 1.i, 1.j,  and 1. k:  Against Applicant  
Subparagraphs  1.l and 1.m:  For Applicant  
Subparagraph  1.n:  Against Applicant  
Subparagraphs 1.o,  1.p,  and 1.q:   For Applicant  
Conclusion  
I conclude that it is not clearly consistent with the national security interests of the 
United States to grant Applicant eligibility for access to classified information. Clearance 
is denied. 
LeRoy F. Foreman 
Administrative Judge 
8 