 
 
  
 
  
        
         
           
             
 
 
  
  
            
   
   
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
     
  
    
     
     
  
  
  
___________ 
___________ 
DEPAR
TMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 23-02609 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance  ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Karen A.C. Moreno-Sayles, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
06/25/2025 
Decision 
HARVEY, Mark, Administrative Judge: 
Guideline E (personal conduct) security concerns are refuted. Guideline J (criminal 
conduct) security concerns are not mitigated. Eligibility for access to classified information 
is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On January 9, 2023, and July 1, 2024, Applicant completed and signed 
Questionnaires for National Security Positions or security clearance applications (SCA). 
(Government Exhibits (GE) 1; GE 2) On November 26, 2024, the Defense 
Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) issued a statement of reasons (SOR) 
to Applicant under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified 
Information within Industry, February 20, 1960; Department of Defense ( DOD) Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (Directive), 
January 2, 1992; and Security Executive Agent Directive 4, establishing in Appendix A 
the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to 
Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensit ive Position (AGs), effective June 8, 
2017. (Hearing Exhibit (HE) 2) 
 
 
 
  
 
    
 
 
   
   
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
   
 
  
    
  
  
  
The SOR detailed reasons why the DCSA  did not find under the Directive that it is  
clearly consistent with the interests  of national security to grant or continue a security  
clearance for Applicant and recommended referral to an administrative judge to  
determine whether a clearance should be granted, continued,  denied, or revoked.  
Specifically,  the SOR  set forth security concerns arising under Guidelines J and E. (HE  
2) On December 21, 2024, Applicant provided her response to the  SOR and requested  
a hearing.  (HE  3) On February  14,  2025, Department Counsel was ready  to proceed.     
On March 3, 2025, Applicant’s case was assigned to me. On March 7, 2025, the 
Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a notice of hearing, setting the 
hearing for April 24, 2025. (HE 1) The hearing was held as scheduled. 
Department Counsel offered nine exhibits into evidence. (Transcript (Tr.) 17; GE  
1-GE 9)  Applicant  objected to the admissibility of  GE  3, Applicant’s Office of Personnel  
Management (OPM) interview, and Department Counsel withdrew  her submission of GE  
3. (Tr. 18) Applicant objected to the admissibility of GE  9, a 2016 Air Force investigative  
report  because it was  not relevant to SOR ¶ 2.a, the 2024 SCA in issue, and she was  
never arrested. (Tr. 19-21) The March 2016 offense was  more than seven years  before  
she completed the 2004 SCA. (AE C) “Police reports, which are admissible both as an  
official record under Directive ¶ E3.1.20 and as a public record under Federal Rule of  
Evidence 803(8),  are presumed t o b e reliable by  virtue of the g overnment agency’s duty  
for accuracy and the high probability that it has satisfied that duty.”  ISCR Case No. 22-
02391 at 4 (App. Bd.  Oct.  17, 2023) (citing ISCR Case No. 15-02859 at 3 (App.  Bd. Jun.  
23, 2017); ISCR Case No. 16- 03603 at 4 (App. Bd. May  29,  2019)).  The 2016 polic e 
report supports SOR ¶ 1.b and is relevant to show a pattern of abuse of Applicant’s son 
under the whole-person concept.  I  overruled Applicant’s objections to admissibility of GE  
9. (Tr. 20)  
There were no other objections, and I admitted GEs 1, 2, and 4- 9. (Tr. 20 -22) 
Applicant offered eight exhibits into evidence, and all of her exhibits were admitted without 
objection. (Tr. 23-26; Applicant Exhibits (AE) A -AE H) On May 5, 2025, DOHA received 
a transcript of the hearing. No post-hearing documents were received. (Tr. 59) 
Some details were excluded to protect Applicant’s right to privacy. Specific 
information is available in the cited exhibits and transcript. 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s SOR response, she denied all the SOR allegations. (HE 3) She also 
provided extenuating and mitigating information. ( Id.) Her admissions are accepted as 
findings of fact. 
Applicant is 32 years old, and a DOD contractor has employed her for 10 months 
as an inspector for aircraft. (Tr. 6, 8) In 2012, she graduated from high school, and she 
has not attended college. (Tr. 6-7) She has never married. (Tr. 7) She has a 10-year-old 
son (S). (Tr. 7) S’s father is in the Navy, and S is currently living with him. (Tr. 30) S’s 
father “pretty much dictates when” Applicant can talk to or see S. (Tr. 31) 
2 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
    
  
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
Applicant served in the Navy from 2013 to 2022. (Tr. 33; AE G) She received a 
general discharge under honorable conditions for misconduct. She was a petty officer 
second class (E-5) when she left the Navy. (Tr. 9) Her specialty was aviation machinist 
mate. (Tr. 9) She has numerous relatives who served in the military. (Tr. 27) 
Criminal Conduct  
SOR ¶ 1.b alleges in about March 2016, Applicant was investigated for assault and 
battery of an individual under 16 years old and child neglect. 
In about March 2016, the Navy had recently transferred S’s father to Hawaii. (Tr.  
40) Applicant was suffering from  postpartum depression,  and she was  feeling  
overwhelmed. (Tr. 40)  She took her infant son to a pediatric clinic for a physical.  While at  
the clinic, S started screaming, and she slapped S. There was a handprint  on his cheek  
and two scratch marks from her nails. (GE  9) The Air Force police cited her for assault  
and battery on a child  under the age of  16. (GE  9) She said she hit S in reaction to being 
over stressed. (Tr. 41) She did not receive any disciplinary action from her command.  
After the incident, she went to family therapy  for about nine months  and learned coping  
mechanisms. (Tr. 41-42) Around 2020, S was having behavior issues in class, and she  
took S to a doctor. S was diagnosed with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD),  
and S possibly had underlying anger issues. (Tr. 45) S was prescribed medication to treat  
his ADHD. (Tr. 45)  
In about August 2021, Applicant was under pressure and stress from the Navy for 
giving a higher priority to caring for S than her Navy duties. (Tr. 45- 46) It was a Sunday 
night, and she became angry with S, who was six years old, for not settling down to go to 
bed. (Tr. 46) She said she spanked S with her hand. (Tr. 47) The next day when he was 
at school, the school nurse reported her to Child Protective Services (CPS) for the bruises 
on S’s thighs and hips. (Tr. 46- 47) S told the school nurse that Applicant spanked him 
with the metal part of a belt because he couldn’t remember his prayer, and there were 
marks on him that looked like they were in various stages of healing. (Tr. 48; GE 7) 
Applicant locked S outside for about five minutes, and he received mult iple insect bites. 
(GE 7)  
In August 2021, Applicant told a Child Protection Investigator and school resource 
officer the following: 
[S]he spanked [S] on 08/15/2021, with five or six strikes from a ruler that 
could have resulted in bruising to his left thigh. [Applicant] had noticed the 
bruises on [S’s] buttocks but did not know where they came from. [S told 
Applicant] it was from falling, and [Applicant] suspected an accidental cause 
from bicycling. (GE 7) 
3 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
    
  
  
 
  
 
    
 
  
 
   
    
  
   
  
  
   
     
  
 
  
    
On August 16, 2021, Applicant’s son was evaluated by the Child Protection Team 
(CPT). The county sheriff’s report states: 
[S]  disclosed to CPT  that his  mother spanked him with a belt. [S] also  
disclosed that his mother put her hand on his neck and he could not breathe  
until  she let go. [S] disclosed that  sometimes his  mother bangs  his head on  
the wall. [S] disclosed that his  mother locks  him  outside at night. [S] was  
observed to have multiple, deep contusions and areas of patterned  
ecchymosis with swelling and tenderness  of  his buttocks and thighs.  Some  
of the contused areas appeared older, in different healing stages suggestive  
of at least two different  incidents of trauma. CPT impression was “Extensive  
patterned bruises of bilateral thighs and buttocks consistent with egregious  
physical abuse of a six-year-old male child. [S] was subjected to significant,  
prolonged, blunt force trauma by  a belt, possibly with holes or studs  or  
similar object.” (GE 7)  
Applicant denied that she hit  S with a belt. (Tr. 48.) She admitted that she was the  
source of some of the  bruises  on S’s  buttocks, which resulted from  her spanking S. (Tr.  
47) She spanked S for  not listening to her and “being unruly.” (Tr. 47) She did not  accept  
responsibility for causing bruises  of varied ages on S and argued that the report should  
not be accepted as true because the CPS representative was not  qualified to provide a  
medical opinion. (Tr. 48-49) She denied that  she told a CPS representative that she hit  S  
five or six strikes with  a ruler. (Tr. 49) The CPS reported that Applicant locked S outside  
for several  minutes. (Tr. 49) She denied that  she locked S outside. (Tr. 49)    
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges in about August 2021, Applicant was arrested and charged with 
cruelty toward child - abuse child without great bodily harm. She pleaded guilty and her 
adjudication of guilt was withheld pending completion of two (2) years of probation. 
Applicant admitted she was arrested and charged with the offense in SOR ¶ 1.a, 
which is a felony. (Tr. 49) She pleaded guilty and received deferred adjudication pending 
completion of two years of probation in July of 2022. (Tr. 35, 49-50) 
Applicant’s pretrial agreement states: 
I hereby enter my plea of guilty because I am guilty. Before entering such 
plea of guilty, I was advised of the nature of all the charges against me, the 
statutory offenses included within such charges, the range of maximum 
allowable punishments for each charge, all the possible defenses to each 
charge, and all circumstances in mitigation of such charges. I have been 
advised of all other facts essential to a full and complete understanding of 
all offenses with which I have been charged, and of all offenses to which I 
am entering this plea. I have been advised of all direct consequences of the 
sentence to be imposed. (GE 4 at 1) 
During probation, Applicant attended anger management once a week for 10 
weeks, an anger and violence prevention program once a week for 26 weeks, and family 
4 
 
 
 
     
   
   
   
  
     
 
 
   
    
   
   
   
 
   
  
 
 
      
    
  
    
   
 
 
   
 
    
  
 
   
   
 
   
  
and group therapy once a week for ten weeks. (Tr. 36) During her probation period, CPS 
viewed her as a threat to S and refused to allow her to contact S. (Tr. 38) In July of 2023, 
Applicant’s probation was terminated, and the charge was dismissed. (Tr. 35, 38; GE 8) 
She attends physical therapy for back pain. (Tr. 39) She went to about five sessions of 
mental-health therapy after the charge was dismissed. (Tr. 39) She was unemployed at 
that time and could not afford additional sessions. (Tr. 39) Because of her successful 
completion of probation, she does not have a conviction. (AE H) 
Personal Conduct  
In Applicant’s January 9, 2023 SCA, she reported her 2021 arrest, charge, and 
probation described in SOR ¶ 1.a. (Tr. 55; GE 1 at 25) She lost her sponsorship for a 
security clearance and her employment after completion of this SCA. (Tr. 56) Her loss of 
employment may not have been connected to the information she provided in her 2023 
SCA. 
SOR ¶ 2.a alleges that Applicant falsified material facts on her July 1, 2024 SCA 
in Section 22 – Police Record, which states: 
For this section report information regardless  of whether the record in your  
case has been sealed, expunged, or otherwise stricken from the court  
record, or the charge was dismissed . . . Have any of the following  
happened? (If “Yes” you will be asked to provide details for each offense  
that  pertains to the actions that  are identified below.) .  . .  In the last  seven  
(7)  years have y ou been arrested by   any police officer,  sheriff, marshal, or  
any other type of law enforcement official? In the last seven (7)  years have  
you been charged, convicted,  or sentenced of  a crime in any court? (Include  
all qualifying charges,  convictions  or sentences in any Federal, state, local,  
military, or non-U.S. court, even if  previously listed on this form).  
Applicant answered no and failed to disclose her arrest and charge as set forth in 
SOR ¶ 1.a, supra. She said under state law and regulations, she did not have to report 
the 2021 arrest and charges. (Tr. 58-59) She did not provide any state law or regulations 
indicating arrests and charges did not need to be reported on an SCA. She further 
explained her answer as follows: 
That was actually a misunderstanding under my part. I was also rushing 
through [the 2024 SCA], because me and the security manager, we were 
going back and forth with the emails, and him telling me that I needed to 
readjust the security clearance questionnaire. So after about the fifth time 
of having to redo it, instead of trying to provide all the documentation, which 
I couldn’t do while I was at work, because all the documentation was there, 
I actually answered no to that. And even with the arrest, it wasn’t pointed 
out to me until later, especially after all of this, I do admit that I made a 
mistake in answering no to that. I thought after the adjudication was done 
and over with, that I didn't have to report it because it’s no longer -- I'm listed 
as a non-convict. . . . (Tr. 56-57) 
5 
 
 
 
 
     
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
   
 
 
    
    
   
 
 
  
 
   
   
   
     
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
    
 
   
 
  
 
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
Applicant stated in her 2024 SCA that she was administratively discharged from 
the Navy for committing a “severe” offense. She said she was accused “of child 
cruelty/child abuse in the civilian sector . . . . Separated before final findings were found 
in July.” (GE 2 at 20) 
Character Evidence  
Applicant’s mother described her as a loving mother who did not use excessive 
physical punishment to discipline S. (AE D) She described Applicant’s positive 
background, generosity, athleticism in high school, and dedication to the Navy and S. Id. 
A leading petty officer praised Applicant for her integrity and “attention to detail and 
insistence on doing things correctly [which] often set her at odds with other members of 
the work center and in my opinion her composure and carriage under these 
circumstances was always cool and professional.” (AE E) A petty officer first class and 
Applicant’s supervisor when she was in the Navy described her as diligent, a “go getter,” 
professional, honest, and an asset to the Navy. (AE F) 
Policies  
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion of the Executive 
Branch in regulating access to information pertaining to national security emphasizing, 
“no one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 
518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual 
is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The President 
has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicant’s eligibility for 
access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly consistent with the 
national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation 
about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Clearance 
decisions must be “in terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a 
determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 § 7. 
Thus, nothing in this decision should be construed to suggest that it is based, in whole or 
6 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
    
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
in part, on any express or implied determination about applicant’s allegiance, loyalty, or 
patriotism. It is merely an indication the applicant has not met the strict guidelines the 
President, Secretary of Defense, and DNI have established for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). “The Directive 
presumes there is a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of 
the Guidelines and an applicant’s security eligibility. Direct or objective evidence of nexus 
is not required.”  ISCR Case No. 18- 02581 at 4 (App. Bd. Jan. 14, 2020) (ci ting ISCR 
Case No. 15-08385 at 4 (App. Bd. May 23, 2018)). 
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial  
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶  E3.1.15. An applicant “has  the ultimate burden of  demonstrating that it  
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant  or continue his [or  her] security  
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01- 20700 at  3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). The burden of  
disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the Government.  See  ISCR Case No. 02-
31154 at  5 (App. Bd.  Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  Egan, 484 U.S. at 531;  see  AG  ¶ 2(b).  
Analysis  
Personal Conduct  
AG ¶ 15 explains why personal conduct is a security concern stating: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect 
classified information. Of special interest is any failure to provide truthful 
and candid answers during the security clearance process or any other 
failure to cooperate with the security clearance process. . . . 
AG ¶ 16 provides one personal conduct condition that could raise a security 
concern and may be disqualifying in relation to her provision of inaccurate information on 
her SCA: 
(a) deliberate omission, concealment,  or falsification of relevant facts from  
any personnel  security questionnaire, personal  history  statement,  or similar  
form  used to conduct investigations, determine employment qualifications,  
award benefits or  status, determine national security eligibility or  
trustworthiness, or  award fiduciary responsibilities.   
7 
 
 
  
  
    
  
 
    
   
 
 
  
   
   
  
 
 
      
  
  
   
   
  
 
  
     
  
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Applicant failed to disclose on her July 1, 2024 SCA in response to questions about 
arrests and charges that in August 2021 she was arrested and charged with cruelty 
toward child - abuse child without great bodily harm, a felony. She knew her answers 
were incorrect at the time she provided them. She worked with her security officer on 
completion of her SCA, and she had difficulty completing her SCA. However, she 
disclosed her offense on her 2023 SCA and in her discussion of her general discharge 
from the Navy in her July 1, 2024 SCA. 
“Applicant’s statements about [her] intent and state of mind when [she] executed 
[her] Security Clearance Application were relevant evidence, but they [are] not binding on 
the Administrative Judge.” ISCR Case No. 04- 09488 at 2 (App. Bd. Nov. 29, 2006) 
(citation omitted). In ADP Case No. 17- 03932 at 3 (App. Bd. Feb. 14, 2019), the Appeal 
Board recognized the importance of circumstantial evidence of intent in falsification 
cases: 
When evaluating the deliberate nature of an alleged falsification, a Judge 
should consider the applicant’s mens rea in light of the entirety of the record 
evidence. See, e.g., ADP Case No. 15-07979 at 5 (App. Bd. May 30, 2017). 
As a practical matter, a finding regarding an applicant’s intent or state of 
mind may not always be based on an applicant’s statements, but rather may 
rely on circumstantial evidence. Id. 
Applicant’s decision not to disclose negative information on her SCA about her 
arrest and charge in response to questions about arrests and charges were not made 
with intent to deceive. She disclosed her criminal conduct in connection with her 
discharge from the Navy. She has refuted the allegation that she intentionally falsified her 
2024 SCA with intent to deceive. 
Criminal Conduct  
AG ¶ 30 describes the security concern about criminal conduct, “Criminal activity 
creates doubt about a person’s judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness. By its very 
nature, it calls into question a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, r ules, 
and regulations.” 
AG ¶ 31 provides one criminal conduct condition that could raise a security concern 
and may be disqualifying in this case: 
(b) evidence (including, but not limited to, a credible allegation, an 
admission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of  
whether the individual  was formally charged,  prosecuted, or convicted.  
AG ¶¶ 31(a) is established. Discussion of the disqualifying conditions is in the 
mitigating section infra. 
8 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
   
  
 
   
   
 
 
   
 
 
     
   
   
  
 
AG ¶ 32 lists four conditions that could mitigate criminal conduct security concerns: 
(a) so much time has  el
 apsed since the criminal behavior happened, or it  
happened under such unusual circumstances, that it is unlikely to recur and  
does not cast doubt on the individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, or good  
judgment;  
(b) the individual was pressured or coerced into committing the act and  
t
hose pressures are no longer present in the person’s life;  
(c) no reliable evidence to support that the individual committed the offense;  
and  
(d) there is evidence of successful rehabilitation; including, but not limited  
t
o, the passage of time without recurrence of criminal activity, restitution,  
compliance with the terms of parole or  probation, job training or higher  
education, good employment  record,  or constructive community  
involvement.  
In I
SCR Case No. 10- 04641 at 4 (App. Bd. Sept. 24, 2013), the DOHA Appeal 
Board explained Applicant’s responsibility for proving the applicability of mitigating 
conditions as follows: 
Once a concern arises regarding an Applicant’s security clearance 
eligibility, there is a strong presumption against the grant or maintenance of 
a security clearance. See Dorfmont v. Brown, 913 F. 2d 1399, 1401 (9th 
Cir. 1990), cert. denied, 499 U.S. 905 (1991). After the Government 
presents evidence raising security concerns, the burden shifts to the 
applicant to rebut or mitigate those concerns. See Directive ¶ E3.1.15. The 
standard applicable in security clearance decisions is that articulated in 
Egan, supra. “Any doubt concerning personnel being considered for access 
to classified information will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Directive, Enclosure 2 ¶ 2(b). 
In 2016, Applicant slapped S  hard enough to leave a handprint on his face, and  
she scratched him with her fingernail.  S was about one year old when he received this  
slap. The Air Force police cited her  for  assault and battery upon a child under the age of  
16. Her command’s failure to pursue disciplinary action does  not justify a conclusion that  
she did not commit  the conduct in question.  See  ISCR Case No. 22-00761 at 8 (App.  Bd.  
May 27,  2025) (citing ISCR Case No. 18- 02018 at 4 (App.  Bd.  Nov. 4,  2021)). She  
admitted that she hit S, and I find that  Applicant committed this criminal offense.  
In August 2021, Applicant was charged with cruelty toward child - abuse child 
without great bodily harm, a felony. She pleaded guilty and her adjudication of guilt was 
withheld pending completion of two (2) years of probation. I find that Applicant committed 
this criminal offense. 
9 
 
 
   
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
      
 
   
   
  
  
     
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
On August 16, 2021, Applicant’s son was evaluated by the CPT. The county 
sheriff’s report states: 
[S]  disclosed to CPT  that his  mother spanked him with a belt. [S] also  
disclosed that his mother put her hand on his neck and he could not breathe  
until  she let go. [S] disclosed that  sometimes his  mother bangs  his head on  
the wall. [S] disclosed that his  mother locks  him  outside at night. [S] was  
observed to have multiple, deep contusions and areas of patterned  
ecchymosis with swelling and tenderness  of  his buttocks and thighs.  Some  
of the contused areas appeared older, in different healing stages suggestive  
of at least two different  incidents of trauma. CPT impression was “Extensive  
patterned bruises of bilateral thighs and buttocks consistent with egregious  
physical abuse of a six-year-old male child. [S] was subjected to significant,  
prolonged, blunt force trauma by  a belt, possibly with holes or studs  or  
similar object.” (GE 7)  
I find that S truthfully related to CPT what his mother did to him, and that 
information is accurately reflected in the county sheriff’s report. The CPT descriptions or 
observations of the injuries S sustained corroborate S’s statements. 
Applicant provided some important mitigating information. During probation, 
Applicant attended anger management once a week for 10 weeks, an anger and violence 
prevention program once a week for 26 weeks, and family and group therapy once a 
week for ten weeks. In July of 2023, Applicant’s probation was terminated, and the charge 
was dismissed. She went to about five sessions of mental-health therapy after the charge 
was dismissed. 
The evidence against mitigation is more persuasive. Applicant was not truthful at 
her hearing. She minimized the aggravated nature of her beating of S in 2021. She falsely 
denied that she struck S with a ruler or belt. She said she only used her hand to spank 
him. She falsely denied that she locked him outside where he was bitten by insects. 
“When an applicant is unwilling or unable to accept responsibility for his [or her] own 
actions, such a failure is evidence that detracts from a finding of reform and rehabilitation.” 
ISCR Case No. 20-01699 at 5 (App. Bd. Oct. 12, 2022) (citing ISCR Case 21-00321 at 3 
(App. Bd. Sep. 8, 2022)). Applicant’s failure to truthfully and candidly accept responsibility 
for her conduct at her hearing shows a lack of rehabilitation. Criminal conduct security 
concerns are not mitigated. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
Applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the Applicant’s 
conduct and all the circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(a): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
10 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
      
   
  
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
 
 
    
   
  
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other  permanent behavioral  changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.   
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. I have incorporated my 
comments under Guidelines E and J in my whole-person analysis. Some of the factors in 
AG ¶ 2(a) were addressed under those guidelines, but some warrant additional comment. 
Applicant is 32 years old, and a DOD contractor has employed her for 10 months 
as an inspector for aircraft. In 2012, she graduated from high school, and she has not 
attended college. She served in the Navy from 2013 to 2022. She received a general 
discharge under honorable conditions for misconduct. She was a petty officer second 
class (E-5) when she left the Navy. Her specialty was aviation machinist mate. She has 
numerous relatives who served in the military. She presented three character statements. 
They support approval of her access to classified information. She received counseling 
and therapy to address her anger issues and physical abuse of S. 
The factors weighing against granting her security clearance are more substantial 
than the mitigating circumstances. Applicant deliberately minimized her abuse of S at her 
hearing. She committed criminal offenses in 2016 and 2021. Her criminal conduct is 
discussed in more detail in the analysis section, supra. 
It is well settled that once a concern arises regarding an applicant’s security 
clearance eligibility, there is a strong presumption against the grant or renewal of a 
security clearance. See Dorfmont, 913 F. 2d at 1401. I have carefully applied the law, as 
set forth in Egan, Exec. Or. 10865, the Directive, and the AGs, to the facts and 
circumstances in the context of the whole person. Personal conduct security concerns 
are refuted; however, criminal conduct security concerns are not mitigated. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline J:   AGAINST APPLICANT   
S
ubparagraphs  1.a and 1.b:  Against Applicant  
Paragraph 2, Guideline E:   FOR APPLICANT   
S
ubparagraph 2.a:   For Applicant  
11 
 
 
 
      
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
_________________________ 
Conclusion  
Considering all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with national security to grant or continue Applicant’s eligibility for a 
security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
MARK HARVEY 
Administrative Judge 
12 