 
                                                
 
                                    
                        DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE                           
      DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS  
                              
   
           
             
 
 
 
 )  
I
n the matter of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR Case No.  23-02337  
  )  
 )   
Applicant  for Security Clearance  )  
___________________________________)  
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
   
 
   
   
     
  
     
___________________________________ 
______________ 
______________ 
Appearances  
For
 Government: Carroll J. Connelley, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
04/21/2025 
Decision  
MURPHY, Braden M., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not provide sufficient evidence to mitigate financial considerations 
security concerns over his delinquent debts. Applicant’s eligibility for access to classified 
information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on November 12, 2022, 
in connection with his employment in the defense industry. On February 27, 2024, the 
Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency Consolidated Adjudication Services 
(DCSA CAS) issued Applicant a Statement of Reasons (SOR) detailing security concerns 
under Guideline F, Financial Considerations. The DCSA CAS issued the SOR under 
Executive Order 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 
1960), as amended; Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial 
Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended 
(Directive); and the Security Executive Agent Directive 4, National Security Adjudicative 
Guidelines (AG) effective within the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
 
  
 
 
 
      
   
 
   
   
 
 
     
   
   
  
 
   
   
  
 
 
  
  
    
 
   
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
       
 
  
 
   
  
Applicant answered the SOR on April 1, 2024, and requested a hearing before an 
administrative judge from the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA). The case 
was assigned to me on December 10, 2024. On February 5, 2025, following consultation 
with the parties, DOHA issued a notice scheduling the hearing for March 5, 2025. The 
hearing was to take place virtually through an online platform. 
The hearing convened as scheduled. Department Counsel submitted 
Government’s Exhibits (GE) 1 through 6. Applicant’s Answer to the SOR, with several 
attachments, was marked as Applicant’s Exhibit (AE) A. Applicant also testified. All of the 
exhibits were admitted without objection. I left the record open until March 14, 2025, to 
allow Applicant the opportunity to submit additional information. He did not submit any 
more documents by that date, and the record closed. DOHA received the hearing 
transcript (Tr.) on March 17, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant admitted the debts at SOR ¶¶ 1.a -1.g, 1.k, and 1.l. He denied the debts 
at SOR ¶¶ 1.h, 1.i, and 1.j. with explanations and two narrative statements. His 
admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. Additional findings follow. 
Applicant is 41 years old. He completed his general equivalency degree (GED) in 
2006. He has never married but has a 14- year-old son. He has been employed by a 
defense contractor as a security officer since June 2022. Most of his jobs since 2013 have 
been in the security field. From mid -2019 to late 2020, he worked for a charity 
organization. He spent several months in 2021 working at a distribution center of a large 
retailer. His most recent period of unemployment was in 2013, but there have been 
subsequent periods of sporadic, part-time work. He also said he did not work in January 
and February 2021 because he was ill. He held an interim clearance before the SOR was 
issued. (GE 1, GE 2; Tr. 10, 14, 24-31, 36, 60-64) 
Applicant did not disclose any delinquent debts on his SCA but disclosed them and 
discussed them at length during his subsequent background interviews. His interview 
summaries include handwritten notes from Applicant detailing his efforts to settle and 
resolve his various debts. In May 2023, he responded to an interrogatory about his 
finances from DOD but provided little new information to update his financial status. (GE 
1, GE 2, GE 3) 
The 12 SOR debts total about $26,267. They are established by credit reports in 
the record, from December 2022, August 2023, and April 2024. (GE 4, GE 5, GE 6) 
Applicant asserted in his interviews and his testimony that his debts were due to 
circumstances beyond his control, such as employment instability and a lack of sufficient 
income. He has attempted to reach out to his creditors, and believes one of them has 
been paid. He was unclear on when he fell behind on the debts in the SOR. He likes his 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
job and wants to gain eligibility for a clearance. (GE 2; Tr. 24- 35) The current status of 
the debts is as follows: 
SOR ¶ 1.a ($6,942) is an auto account that  has  been charged off.  (GE 4, GE  5)  
The balance owed is now $7,393. (GE  6) Applicant explained in his interview and
testimony that the car had mechanical trouble. He reported the problem to the dealer and  
had them  repossess the car. He discussed a  settlement of $3,000 with the creditor but it  
was not finalized. (GE  2; Tr. 37-40) The debt is unresolved.   
SOR ¶  1. b ($6,011) is  an auto financing account  placed for collection by a credit  
union. (GE 4, GE 5, GE 6) Applicant was  making payments  on the account until he lost  
his job in about 2018.  Once he stopped paying, the creditor demanded a $1,000 payment  
to  restart payments, which he could not afford, so they repossessed the vehicle. He has  
had no contact with the creditor since then. (GE 2; Tr. 40-43) The debt is  unresolved.   
SOR ¶ 1.c  ($1,715) is an account for past -d ue rent  placed for collection by an  
apartment complex. (GE 4, GE 5, GE 6) Applicant said he was told the complex had  
referred the debt to a collection agency, whom he then contacted, with no response. (AE  
A) He was working part time and was  out of work when he got sick, so he could not afford  
the rent increase. He turned the key  over in early June 2022 and still owed that  month’s  
rent even though he had moved out in May. He also believes the creditor added extra  
fees  and charges. He  has not contacted them to resolve the debt. (Tr. 43-45)  
SOR ¶ 1.d ($788) is an auto account placed  f or collection by  a lender. (GE  4, GE  
5, GE 6) Applicant provided correspondence he wrote to the creditor  concerning his effort  
to settle the debt. (AE  A) Applicant said he had a car loan he was  paying on, when the 
car was wrecked. He though he had sufficient “gap insurance” to cover any costs, but  this  
debt was not covered, so he is responsible for it. In May 2023, he offered to pay $40 a  
month for  10 months, but did not  begin the p ayments because he n  ever  got  confirmation  
of the agreement. (Tr.  45-47) The debt is unresolved.   
SOR ¶¶ 1.e ($617)  an d 1.f ($467) are accounts placed for collection by the same  
lender. (GE 5, GE 6) Applicant said he told the creditor that  his bank records showed the  
debts had been paid. (AE A) He provided no supporting documentation to verify this. He  
believes one of the two debts  have been paid. (Tr. 48-51) These debts  are not  established  
as resolved.   
SOR ¶  1.g ($382) is an account placed for collection by  a cable TV provider. (GE  
4, GE 5) Applicant provided correspondence he wrote to the creditor  concerning his effort  
to settle the debt. (AE  A) This was for the cable box from the apartment at SOR ¶ 1.c. He  
was not aware he had to return it so he left it there.  When he went back to collect it, it was  
gone. He has not attempted to resolve the debt but said he could do so. (Tr. 51) The debt  
is unresolved.   
The r
emaining SOR debts are medical debts. Applicant has suffered from a chronic 
medical condition since early adulthood. More recently, he also suffered an athletic injury 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
    
   
  
 
 
   
  
  
     
  
 
   
  
   
   
 
 
   
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
    
   
     
   
 
  
    
  
  
while volunteering with children. He also acknowledged that he often has poor eating 
habits, which make his condition worse. (Tr. 52-54) 
SOR ¶¶ 1.h
 ($7,905) and 1.j ($407) are medical debts placed for collection. The 
creditors are unidentified. (GE 4) Applicant indicated that he reached out to the creditor 
hospital to resolve them. The athletic injury occurred in 2010, about 15 years ago. His 
coverage was denied. He has not heard anything from this creditor on these debts for 
some time. They are not listed on more recent credit reports. (Tr. 56-58) 
SOR ¶ 1.i
 ($470) is a medical account placed for collection. (GE 4) Applicant 
asserted that he spoke to the collection agency and said he had made the full payment. 
(AE A) He did not provide supporting documentation, but he said he paid it off in $50 
monthly installments, ending in late 2023. (Tr. 54-56) This debt does not appear on more 
recent credit reports and is likely resolved. 
SOR ¶ 1.k
 ($316) is a medical account placed for collection. (GE 4) Applicant 
provided correspondence he wrote to the creditor concerning his effort to settle the debt. 
(AE A) He did not provide supporting documentation and did not hear back from them. 
(Tr. 58-59) This debt does not appear on more recent credit reports 
SOR ¶ 1.l 
($247) is a medical account placed for collection. (GE 4) Applicant said 
he spoke to the collection agency and proposed a payment plan, to begin in January 
2024. (AE A; Tr. 34- 35) He said he was remiss in failing to follow up on the payments. 
(Tr. 58-60) 
A
pplicant is an hourly full-time employee, earning $26 an hour, often with 8 hours 
of overtime. He earns about $2,800 a month, which is enough to make ends meet. He 
has not had formal credit counseling but he gets financial advice on bill -paying and 
budgeting from a family member. (Tr. 30-31, 60-66) 
Applicant closed his testimony by expressing a willingness to address his debts, 
smallest ones first, as best he can. He understood why he was there, and he wants to get 
his clearance and keep his job. (Tr. 66-67, 72) 
Policies  
It is well established that no one has a right to a security clearance. As the 
Supreme Court has held, “the clearly consistent standard indicates that security 
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy 
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988). 
The adjudicative guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a), 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
    
 
   
      
 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of several variables known as  the “whole-
person concept.” The administrative judge must consider  all available, reliable information  
about  the person,  past and present, favorable and unfavorable,  in m aking a decision. The 
protection of the national security is the paramount consideration.  AG ¶ 2(b) requires that  
“[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for access to classified information  
will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have drawn 
only those conclusions  that are reasonable, logical,  and based on the evidence contained  
in the record.  Likewise, I have avoided drawing inferences  grounded on mere speculation  
or conjecture.  
U
nder Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel, and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable security decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
that an applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Analysis  
Guideline F, Financial Considerations  
The security concern relating to the guideline for financial considerations is set out, 
in relevant part, in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's  means, satisfy debts, and meet financial  
obligations may  indicate poor  self-control, lack of judgment, or  
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise  
questions about  an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to  
protect classified or sensitive information.  . .  .   
This concern is broader than the possibility that an individual might knowingly 
compromise classified information in order to raise money. It encompasses concerns 
about an individual’s self-control, judgment, and other qualities essential to protecting 
classified information. An individual who is financially irresponsible may also be 
irresponsible, unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding classified 
information. See ISCR Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012). 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
  
    
   
 
  
 
     
 
 
 
 
  
  
    
 
  
  
  
 
     
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a)  i nability to satisfy  debts; and  
(c) a history of not  m eeting financial  obligations.   
Appl
icant incurred delinquent debts in recent years, including repossessions, 
medical debts, past-due rent, and other accounts. His debts are attributable to sporadic 
employment and a limited income stream, which led him to fall behind on his accounts. 
The SOR debts are established by the Applicant’s credit reports, his admissions, and his 
testimony. AG ¶¶ 19(a) and 19(c) apply. 
The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 are potentially applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
und
er such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good judgment;  
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial  pr oblem were largely beyond  
the person’s control  (e.g., loss of employment, a business  downturn,  
unexpected medical emergency, or a death, divorce or separation, clear  
victimization by  predatory  lending practices, or identity theft), and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;   
(c) the individual  has  received or is receiving financial counseling for the  
problem from  a legitimate and credible source, such as a non- profit credit  
counseling service,  and there are clear indications that the problem is being  
resolved or is under control;  
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- f aith effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  and  
(e) the individual has  a r easonable basis to  dispute the legitimacy  of the 
past-due debt which is  the cause of the problem and provides documented  
proof to substantiate the basis of  the dispute or provides evidence of  actions  
to resolve the issue.  
Appl
icant’s debts are ongoing and unresolved. They continue to cast doubt on his 
judgment, trustworthiness, and reliability. AG ¶ 20(a) does not apply. 
Applicant’s debts are attributable to a variety of circumstances, among them limited 
income, employment instability, medical issues, and generally becoming financially 
overextended. His employment instability and medical issues are circumstances beyond 
his control. AG ¶ 20(b) therefore has some application. However, for full application, he 
must establish that he is acting responsibly under the circumstances. Applicant has made 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
   
  
   
     
  
 
   
  
    
     
  
      
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
     
  
     
       
 
 
     
 
    
  
  
some efforts to pursue his creditors and address his debts, but he provided no real 
concrete examples that he has taken any action to pay, settle, or resolve them. Without 
more such evidence, AG ¶ 20(b) does not fully apply. 
By the same token, Applicant has not shown enough of a documented track record 
of steady payments to his creditors to establish good- faith, responsible efforts. He 
expressed a sincere desire to address his debts, one by one, in the future. This is a good 
plan. But he needs to do more to put it into effect to establish good faith. AG ¶ 20(d) does 
not apply. 
Applicant has not pursued formal credit counseling. He has received some 
financial advice on how to do a budget from a family member, and he has been able to 
make ends meet, but he has not shown that his finances and debts are being resolved 
and are under control. AG ¶ 20(c) does not fully apply. 
Applicant did not establish that any of the mitigating conditions fully apply to 
mitigate the security concern demonstrated by his delinquencies. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all the circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(a), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating condition under all the facts 
and circumstances surrounding this case. Applicant’s debts remain largely unresolved, 
and he has not yet undertaken a good-faith effort to address them. If he does that in the 
future, he may demonstrate eligibility for access to classified information at a later date. 
But as of now, he has not met his burden of showing that he has mitigated the financial 
security concerns shown by his history of delinquent debts. Overall, the record evidence 
leaves me with questions and doubts as to Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
 
      
    
 
   
 
    
      
    
 
 
 
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
                                        
 
_____________________________ 
security clearance. I conclude he did not provide sufficient evidence to mitigate the 
security concerns arising under Guideline F, financial considerations. 
Formal  Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:   AGAINST APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.h:  
Subparagraph 1.i:  
S
ubparagraphs 1.j-1.l:  
Against Applicant  
For Applicant  
Against Applicant  
C
onclusion  
Considering all the circumstances presented, it is not clearly consistent with the 
interests of national security to grant Applicant eligibility for access to classified 
information. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Braden M. Murphy 
Administrative Judge 
8 