 
 
                                                              
           
             
 
 
 
 
 
        
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
        
          
         
      
    
       
     
  
 
        
            
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS  
EA 
c; 
... 7 
o _.~ .t::~! ~ o 
00 
\\ 
______________ 
______________ 
In the  matter of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR Case No. 23-02711  
 )  
Applicant for Security Clearance  )  
Appearances  
For Government: Troy Nussbaum, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
03/26/2025 
Decision  
GOLDSTEIN, Jennifer I., Administrative Judge: 
This case involves security concerns raised under Guideline F (Financial 
Considerations). Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on March 17, 2023. On 
December 19, 2023, the Department of Defense (DoD) sent her a Statement of Reasons 
(SOR) alleging security c oncerns under Guideline F . The DoD acted under Executive 
Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 
20, 1960), as amended; D oD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security 
Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the 
adjudicative guidelines (AG) promulgated in Security Executive Agent Directive 4, 
National Security Adjudicative Guidelines (December 10, 2016). 
Applicant answered the SOR on March 12, 2024, and requested a hearing. The 
case was assigned to me on December 11, 2024. The Defense Office of Hearings and 
 
 
 
 
        
       
     
         
    
 
      
          
        
         
       
 
 
 
            
       
   
 
         
         
      
           
           
         
        
         
          
        
    
           
       
 
 
 
           
     
      
           
          
Appeals (DOHA) issued a notice on January 28, 2025, scheduling the hearing for 
February 13, 2025. Department Counsel requested a continuance, and the case was 
rescheduled for February 26, 2025 , at the agreement of both parties . The hearing 
proceeded as rescheduled. Applicant’s hearing was held using the Microsoft Teams video 
teleconference system. 
During the hearing, Department Counsel offered four government exhibits, (GE) 1-
4; Applicant offer ed one exhibit, (AE) A ; and all proffered exhibits were admitted into 
evidence without objection. On March 7, 2025, DOHA received a copy of the transcript. 
Applicant provided a post-hearing exhibit marked AE B , which was admitted without 
objection. The record closed on March 7, 2025, when the last exhibit was received. 
Some  details were   excluded  to  protect Applicant’s right to  privacy. Specific   
information is available in the cited exhibits and transcript.  
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR she denied all five debts listed in the SOR 
allegations. The five SOR debts total over $35,310. The credit reports reflect the debts 
listed in on SOR. (GE 3, GE 4) 
Applicant is 26 years old. She is a high school graduate and has obtained some 
professional certificates. She is unmarried and has two minor children — one infant and 
one having special needs — that require expensive childcare . Neither of their fathers 
provide financial support, despite a court order for one to pay $905 per month. On March 
14, 2022, Applicant was the victim of a shooting. She received medical treatment but was 
unable to work much that year as she recovered and had mobility restrictions. In April 
2023, s he began work for a contractor on a Navy base, but her employment was 
conditioned upon having a security clearance. She was terminated in January 2024, but 
subject to rehire if she obtains clearance eligibility. She was unemployed from January 
2024 to October 2024. She supported herself and her children with unemployment 
compensation, her son’s social security disability income, and working as a freelance 
food-delivery driver. She is currently employed as a certified medical assistant at a 
medical center, where she has worked since October 2024. She earns $19 an hour and 
works 40 hours per week. She recently took unpaid maternity leave for eight weeks. (AE 
A at 1, 9; Tr. 16-17, 21-28, 43-44, 55) 
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges that Applicant was indebted on a medical account placed for 
collections in the amount of $1,196. This debt was assigned for collections as of October 
2023. This was for a medical debt she incurred at age 20. She did not have health 
insurance coverage at that time. She testified that she contacted this creditor and pays 
$10 when she can. She documented a $10 payment she said was made to this creditor, 
2 
 
 
 
 
          
  
 
            
       
     
          
        
       
            
 
      
             
        
         
  
 
           
       
      
          
      
          
          
        
      
   
 
           
      
        
         
       
     
           
         
       
 
 
  
     
 
  
but the entry was not dated and the payment reflected it was “pending.” (GE 3 at 2, GE 4 
at 2; AE A at 3, 7; Tr. 19, 30) 
SOR ¶ 1.b alleges that Applicant was indebted on a delinquent account placed for 
collections in the amount of $ 289. The original creditor was a cable company. This debt 
was incurred by her mother opening an account in Applicant’s name. Her mother failed 
to return the cable equipment, and the debt was attributed to Applicant. Applicant 
submitted a message from her mother substantiating Applicant’s claims. She also 
presented account statements from the creditor that show she currently has service with 
the same provider and has a zero balance. (GE 3 at 3, GE 4 at 2; AE B at 3-5; Tr. 31-34) 
SOR ¶ 1.c alleges that Applicant was indebted on a delinquent credit union account 
placed for collections in the amount of $180. This debt has been delinquent since at least 
February 2023. She made a $10 payment on this debt on January 5, 2024, reducing the 
debt to $170 . However, she did not produce documentation of other payments to this 
creditor. (GE 3 at 3; AE A at 3, 5; Tr. 34-36) 
SOR ¶ 1.d alleges that Applicant was indebted on a delinquent account placed for 
collections in the amount of $13,582. This was for a vehicle loan for Applicant’s first car. 
Applicant later bought a sports car and gave the first car to a friend under the agreement 
that the friend would pay off the rest of the loan. Her friend failed to pay the note , as 
documented in a message from the friend. The vehicle was repossessed, and this is the 
remainder due after the vehicle was resold. She attempted to create a repayment 
agreement with this creditor to pay $10 per month. She provided a receipt for a $10 
payment on January 5, 2024. However, the creditor was unwilling to take such small 
payments. She is not able to make larger payments currently. (GE 2, GE 4 at 3; AE A at 
3, AE B at 2; Tr. 19, 36-49, 52) 
SOR ¶ 1.e alleges that Applicant was indebted on a delinquent account placed for 
collections in the amount of $2 0,063. This debt was also for an auto loan. The father of 
her child was driving the car and was in an accident. Her insurance company would not 
cover the accident since she was the only driver listed on the insurance. It has been 
delinquent since at least September 2023. She was issued a summons to appear on 
December 5, 2024, to answer a suit brought by this creditor for a total debt of $25,170. 
However, they negotiated a payment agreement on March 7, 2025, for Applicant to pay 
this creditor $100 per month until the debt is paid. The debt now totals $25 ,952. She did 
not document any payments under this agreement. (GE 2, GE 4 at 3; AE A at 2, AE B at 
1; Tr. at 18, 40-42) 
Applicant intends to pay her debts when she is able. She testified that she utilizes 
a budget. She offered no evidence of participating in financial counseling. (Tr. 45) 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
        
          
           
       
       
      
      
 
       
        
 
        
     
       
    
 
          
   
         
     
        
   
 
 
        
              
          
      
  
 
    
   
        
        
       
        
       
           
 
 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
decision. An administrative judge must consider all available and reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865 
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the appli cant 
has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have 
established for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burde n of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelin es 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 15 -01253 at 3 
(App. Bd. Apr. 20, 2016).  
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
     
   
            
   
        
    
 
 
     
       
     
         
           
 
 
 
  
Once  the  Government establishes a  disqualifying  condition  by substantial 
evidence, the  burden  shifts to  the  applicant  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or mitigate  the  
facts.  Directive ¶  E3.1.15. An  applicant has  the  burden  of proving  a  mitigating  condition,  
and  the  burden  of  disproving  it never shifts  to  the  Government. See  ISCR  Case  No. 02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005).  
An applicant “has the ultimate burden  of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent with  
the  national interest  to  grant or continue his security clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01-
20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if 
they must, on the side  of denials.” Egan, 484  U.S. at 531.  
Analysis  
Guideline F, Financial Considerations  
The security concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual's reliability, trus tworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. An individual who is financially 
overextended is at greater risk of having to engage in illegal or otherwise 
questionable acts to generate funds. . . . 
This concern is broader than the possibility that a person might knowingly 
compromise classified information to raise money. It encompasses concerns about a 
person’s self -control, judgment, and other qualities essential to protecting classified 
information. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible, 
unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding classified information. See ISCR 
Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012). 
The  documentary evidence  admitted  into  evidence  establish  the  following  
disqualifying  conditions under this guideline: AG ¶  19(a) (“inability to  satisfy  debts”); and  
AG ¶  19(c)  (“a  history of not   meeting  financial obligations.”). The  SOR debts  total over  
$35,310  and  they have  been  delinquent for  a  few years, with  the  exception  of  the  $289  
debt in  SOR ¶ 1.b, which has been resolved.  
5 
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
         
         
       
           
        
          
          
       
         
        
             
         
           
       
           
  
 
 
       
       
          
        
The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 are relevant: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or occurred  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur and  does not  cast doubt  
on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;  
(b) the  conditions  that resulted  in the  financial problem  were  largely  beyond  
the  person's control  (e.g.,  loss of  employment,  a  business downturn,  
unexpected  medical emergency,  a  death,  divorce  or separation, clear  
victimization  by predatory lending  practices, or identity  theft), and  the  
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
(c)  the  individual has received  or is receiving  financial counseling  for the  
problem  from  a  legitimate  and  credible  source,  such  as  a  non-profit  credit  
counseling  service, and  there are clear indications that the  problem  is being  
resolved  or is under control;  and  
(d) the  individual initiated  and  is adhering  to  a  good-faith  effort to  repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.  
Applicant is young and has had significant challenges beyond her control that have 
hindered her ability to resolve her delinquent debts. In the past five years, s he has 
experienced periods of unemployment. She was shot. She does not get the court-ordered 
child support she is due. She has a child with special needs and childcare for him is costly. 
Additionally, she has an infant. Her mother and her friend both took advantage of her. 
These are all conditions beyond Applicant’s control and she has learned from her 
experiences. She has acted responsibly by resolving one debt, SOR ¶ 1.b , which is 
mitigated. However, with respect to her remaining delinquencies , she failed to show a 
reasonable plan or good-faith efforts to resolve the remaining delinquent debts. While she 
negotiated a payment arrangement to pay the creditor in SOR ¶ 1.e $100 per month, she 
also testified that she could not afford that payment and did not provide any proof of 
payments under that plan. She made a $10 payment on her smallest debt a year ago, as 
discussed above under SOR ¶ 1.c, but has not had the ability to make subsequent $10 
payments to that creditor. She does not have the resources to meet her family’s needs 
and resolve these past-due delinquencies at this time. Her debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 
and 1.c-1.e are not mitigated. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole -person concept. In applying the whole -
person conce pt, an administrative judge must evaluate an applicant’s eligibility for a 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
        
      
         
            
         
        
           
     
 
 
      
             
      
         
       
        
   
 
 
     
    
 
 
         
security clearance  by considering  the  totality of the  applicant’s conduct and  all  relevant  
circumstances. An  administrative judge  should consider the  nine  adjudicative  process  
factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d):  
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  
and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct;  
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.   
I have incorporated my comments under Guideline F in my whole-person analysis 
and applied the adjudicative factors in AG ¶ 2(d). Applicant has had a series of events 
beyond her control that have impacted her ability to resolve her delinquencies. If she 
continues to utilize a budget and learns from her experiences with her mother and friend, 
she may one day be eligible for a security clearance. While she testified honestly that she 
intends to resolve her delinquencies, she did not meet her burden to show a plan to 
address her delinquent debts at this time. After weighing the disqualifying and mitigating 
conditions under Guideline F and evaluating all the evidence in the context of the whole 
person, I conclude Applicant did not mitigate the financial considerations security 
concerns. 
This decision should not be construed as a determination that Applicant cannot or 
will not attain the state of true reform and rehabilitation necessary to be eligible for a 
security clearance. The determination of an individual’s eligibility and suitability for a 
security clearance is not a once in a lifetime occurrence, but is based on applying the 
factors, both disqualifying and mitigating, to the evidence pr esented. Under h er current 
circumstances, a clearance is not warranted. In the future, she may well demonstrate 
persuasive evidence of her security worthiness. 
Formal  Findings  
I make the following formal findings on the allegations in the SOR: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline F:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 1.a, 1.c-1.e:  Against Applicant  
For Applicant  Subparagraph  1.b:     
 
  
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Conclusion  
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for 
a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Jennifer Goldstein 
Administrative Judge 
8 