 
 
 
                                       
    
      
           
             
 
 
    
  
       
   
  
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
    
 
 
       
       
     
     
  
           
  
 
         
             
       
           
       
______________ 
______________ 
                       
                    DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
   DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS  
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 23-01795 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Cynthia Ruckno, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
01/23/2025 
Decision 
Goldstein, Jennifer, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant mitigated the security concerns under Guidelines H (Drug Involvement 
and Substance Misuse). Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Statement  of the Case  
On September 20, 2023, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement 
of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline H. The 
action was taken under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified 
Information within Industry (February 20, 196 0), as amended; DOD Directive 5220.6, 
Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as 
amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG ) implemented by the DOD on 
June 8, 2017. 
Applicant responded to the SOR on October 23, 2023, and requested a decision 
on the written record in lieu of a hearing. The Government’s written case was submitted 
on September 25, 2024. A complete copy of the file of relevant material (FORM) was 
provided to Applicant, who was afforded an opportunity to file objections and submit 
material to refute, extenuate, o r mitigate the security concern s. Applicant received the 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
             
            
 
 
      
          
          
         
            
              
        
          
         
    
         
   
 
  
 
        
          
           
       
       
      
       
 
       
        
 
FORM  on  October 25,  2024, and  he  did  not respond.  The  case  was assigned  to  me  on  
January 8, 2025. The  Government exhibits  included  in the  FORM  are admitted  in  
evidence, as Government exhibits (GE) 1 through 5.   
Findings of Fact  
 Under the  Guideline  for Drug  Involvement  and  Substance  Misuse,  the  SOR  
alleges that Applicant  used  marijuana  from  November 2016  to  about July 2022.  (SOR  ¶  
1.a) Applicant admitted  this  allegation. (GE 1-3)  
Applicant is 34 years old. He earned a bachelor’s degree in May 2012. He is 
unmarried and has no children. He resides with his girlfriend. He has been employed as 
a software engineer for a federal contractor since October 2022. (GE 4) 
On December 26, 2022, Applicant completed a security clearance application 
(SCA), in which he disclosed that he had used marijuana between November 2016 and 
July 2022. He explained that he tried it soon after it became legal in his state. He initially 
used it recreationally on a monthly basis . After a year or two, he increased the 
frequency of his marijuana use to each weekend. In 2020 , with the COVID lockdowns, 
he started to use it on a daily basis. He obtained it from state -licensed dispensaries. In 
early 2022, he moved in with his girlfriend and his frequency decreased to weekly use. 
Shortly after the move, he decided to search for a new job and knew his marijuana use 
could be problematic for employers. He also was experiencing health issues related to 
his marijuana use. In March 2022, he was diagnosed with cyclical vomiting related to his 
marijuana use. He last purchased marijuana on June 13, 2022 , and stopped using 
marijuana completely after July 17, 2022. (GE 3, GE 4) 
 Applicant continues to  associate  with  friends that use  marijuana,  including  his  
girlfriend  who  smokes it two  or three  times per month  at their  home. However, he  does  
not intend  to  purchase  or use  illegal drugs in  the  future. He indicated  that he  hopes to  
start a  family and  leave  marijuana  behind. He  noted  that even  if marijuana  becomes de-
scheduled  or legal under federal law, he  will  have  other considerations  than  just  
whether it is legal  to  assess before he would use it. (GE 3-5)  
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
2 
 
 
 
         
      
       
  
 
           
   
         
      
         
    
 
 
        
           
          
     
   
 
 
 
   
         
 
  
  
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s over arching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and 
commonsense decision. An administrative judge must consider all available and reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 
10865 § 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the 
applicant has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense 
have established for issuing a clearance. 
 Initially, the  Government must establish, by  substantial evidence,  conditions in  
the  personal  or professional history of  the  applicant  that  may  disqualify the  applicant  
from  being  eligible  for  access to  classified  information.  The  Government has  the  burden  
of establishing  controverted  facts alleged  in  the  SOR.  See  Egan, 484  U.S. at 531.  
“Substantial evidence”  is “more than  a  scintilla but less than  a  preponderance.” See  v.  
Washington  Metro. Area  Transit Auth., 36  F.3d  375, 380  (4th  Cir. 1994). The  guidelines  
presume  a  nexus or rational connection  between  proven  conduct under any of the  
criteria  listed  therein  and  an  applicant’s security suitability. See  ISCR  Case  No.  15-
01253  at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 20, 2016).  
 Once  the  Government establishes a  disqualifying  condition  by substantial 
evidence, the  burden  shifts to  the  applicant  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or mitigate  the  
facts.  Directive ¶  E3.1.15. An  applicant has  the  burden  of proving  a  mitigating  condition,  
and  the  burden  of  disproving  it never shifts  to  the  Government. See  ISCR  Case  No. 02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005).  
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent 
with the national interest to grant or continue his security clearance.” ISCR Case No. 
01-20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, 
if they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
     
        
        
         
             
       
 
 
       
          
        
       
      
     
 
        
 
 
 
        
       
        
        
        
          
         
     
Analysis  
Guideline H, Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse   
The concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 24: 
 
The  illegal use  of controlled  substances,  to  include  the  misuse  of  
prescription  and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances 
that  cause  physical or mental impairment  or are  used  in a  manner  
inconsistent with  their  intended  purpose  can  raise  questions about an  
individual’s reliability and   trustworthiness, both   because  such  behavior  
may lead  to  physical or psychological impairment and  because  it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules,  
and  regulations.  Controlled  substance  means any “controlled  substance”  
as defined  in  21  U.S.C. 802.  Substance  misuse  is the  generic term  
adopted in this guideline to  describe any of the behaviors listed above.  
Marijuana is a Schedule I controlled substance under Federal law pursuant to 
Title 21, Section 812 of the United States Code. Schedule I drugs are those which have 
a high potential for abuse; have no currently accepted medical use in treatment in the 
United States; and lack accepted safety for use of the drug under medical supervision. 
Section 844 under Title 21 of the United States Code makes it unlawful for any person 
to knowingly or intentionally possess a controlled substance not obtained pursuant to a 
valid prescription. 
I have considered the disqualifying conditions for drug involvement and 
substance misuse under AG ¶ 25, and the following are potentially applicable: AG ¶ 
25(a) (any substance misuse (see above definition)); and AG ¶ 25(c) (illegal possession 
of a controlled substance, including cultivation, processing, manufacture, purchase, 
sale, or distribution; or possession of drug paraphernalia). Applicant’s use and purchase 
of marijuana from November 2016 to July 2022 establishes AG ¶¶ 25(a) and 25(c). 
I have considered the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 26. The following is 
applicable: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or happened  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur or does  not cast  doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment.   
Applicant’s illegal marijuana use occurred from November 2016 to July 2022. He 
used it heavily for those six years. He has now matured and no longer enjoys the side -
effects of marijuana. It makes him vomit. He has abstained from marijuana use since 
July 2022, despite continuing to associate with marijuana users. He indicated his intent 
to abstain from the use of illegal substances in the future and demonstrated his 
commitment to that by abstaining for over two years . Given his honesty with the 
government in reporting his marijuana use, I find his stated intent to abstain credible. 
Applicant sufficiently established that future use of illegal drugs is unlikely, and his past 
4 
 
 
 
 
       
       
          
        
       
      
 
 
 
         
        
        
         
           
        
          
         
            
          
       
  
 
use  does not  cast doubt on  his current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  judgment.  AG  
¶ 26(a) applies.  
 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole -person concept. In applying the whole -
person concept, an administrative j udge must evaluate an applicant’s eligibility for a 
security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct and all relevant 
circumstances. An a dministrative judge should consider the nine adjudicative pr ocess 
factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of  
rehabilitation  and  other permanent  behavioral changes;  (7) the  motivation  
for the  conduct;  (8) the  potential  for pressure, coercion,  exploitation, or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood  of continuation  or recurrence.   
I have incorporated my comments under Guideline H in my whole -person 
analysis and applied the adjudicative factors in AG ¶ 2(d ). Once a concern arises 
regarding an applicant’s security clearance eligibility, there is a strong presumption 
against the grant or maintenance of a security clearance.” ISCR Case No. 09-01652 at 
3 (App. Bd. Aug. 8, 2011), citing Dorfmont v. Brown , 913 F.2d 1399, 1401 (9 th Cir. 
1990), cert. denied, 499 U.S. 905 (1991). Applicant has overcome this presumption by 
abstaining from the use of marijuana since July 2022. His decision to quit using 
marijuana was based on his health and his future goals . It shows maturity. I also note 
that he did not use marijuana until his state legalized it. After weighing the disqualifying 
and mitigating conditions under Guideline H and evaluating all the evidence in the 
context of the whole person, I conclude Applicant has mitigated the security concerns 
raised by his drug involvement and substance misuse. 
5 
 
 
 
 
      
   
 
 
 
     
   
 
        
       
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline H (Drugs/Misuse):  FOR APPLICANT  
Subparagraph  1.a:  For Applicant  
Conclusion  
I conclude that it is clearly consistent with the national security interests of the 
United States to grant Applicant eligibility for access to classified information. Clearance 
is granted. 
Jennifer Goldstein 
Administrative Judge 
6 