 
 
 
 
 
                                                              
 
 
 
 
                                                              
                             
          
           
             
 
 
 
    
  
                             
  
     
 
 
 
        
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
   
      
  
          
   
      
     
 
  
~ 0 
o• ~nn~~ ;i,. 
l>il ~ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 23-00444 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Nicholas T. Temple, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Tonya Hardzinski, Esq. 
07/24/2025 
Decision 
HALE, Charles C., Administrative Judge: 
This case involves security concerns raised under Guideline B (Foreign Influence). 
Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Statement  of  the  Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application on December 6, 2021. On 
October 17, 2024, the Department of Defense (DoD) sent him a Statement of Reasons 
(SOR) alleging security concerns under Guideline B. The DoD acted under Executive 
Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 
20, 1960), as amended; D oD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security 
Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the 
adjudicative guidelines (AG) promulgated in Security Executive Agent Directive 4, 
National Security Adjudicative Guidelines (December 10, 2016). 
1 
  
      
           
             
            
            
   
    
   
       
       
 
  
 
    
            
         
   
 
 
   
  
 
   
        
         
     
    
    
      
    
 
    
    
   
   
      
     
 
  
    
   
     
 
      
     
Applicant answered the SOR on October 24, 2024, and requested a hearing before 
an administrative judge. Department Counsel was ready to proceed on February 10, 2025, 
and the case was assigned to me on June 5, 2025. On June 11, 2025, the Defense Office 
of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) notified Applicant that the hearing was scheduled for July 
9, 2025. I convened the hearing as scheduled. Government Exhibits (GE) 1 and 2 were 
admitted in evidence without objection. Applicant’s Exhibit (AE) A through AE G 
(character letters, Applicant’s DD Form 214, Applicant’s authorized medals and honors, 
Applicant’s spouse’s citizenship certificate, updated Thailand travel advisory, news 
articles, and a character letter) were admitted without objection. He testified but did not 
present the testimony of any other witnesses. The record remained open through July 22, 
2025, no additional evidence was submitted by either side. DOHA received the transcript 
(Tr.) on July 17, 2025. 
Department Counsel requested that I take administrative notice of relevant facts 
about Kingdom of Thailand. The request and supporting documents are attached to the 
record as Hearing Exhibit (HE) I. The facts administratively noticed are set out below in 
my findings of fact. 
Findings  of Fact  
In Applicant's answer to the SOR, he admitted all the allegations. His admissions 
are incorporated in my findings of fact. 
Applicant is a 29-year-old aviation mechanic employed by a defense contractor 
since June 2023. He served on active duty in the U.S. Navy from December 2016 to July 
2021 and received a general discharge under honorable conditions. He is proud of his 
naval service and wanted to follow what his “granddad did.” He has a 100 percent 
disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs. After his discharge from the 
Navy, Applicant “moved across the flightline” and began working in the same field 
because he still wanted to help on the “civilian side .” He has held a security clearance 
since January 2017. (GE 1; Tr. 16-17, 29.) 
Applicant's spouse recently became a U.S. citizen in June 2025 . (Tr. 20.) They 
started dating in late 2016, while he was assigned to a ship on the West Coast , and she 
was working on her master’s degree in education. He kept his command informed of his 
relationship and was granted leave to go to Thailand in 2017, after completing entry level 
training. He met his wife’s family for the first time on that visit. They married in March 
2020, while he was still stationed on the West Coast . She earned her master’s degree 
about the same time as their marriage. When his ship deployed his wife moved to the 
East Coast and lived with his mother from approximately August 2020 until July 2021. His 
wife and his mother have a very close relationship as a result of his deployment. He and 
his wife returned tw ice to Thailand in 2022. The second visit was to have a wedding 
ceremony. They moved back to the East Coast in May 2023. (GE 1; 18-21, 42-44, 47.) 
SOR ¶ 1. a. alleges Applicant’s mother-in-law and father-in-law are citizens and 
residents of Thailand. He reported that both of his in-laws are elderly and retired. Neither was 
2 
  
     
  
     
  
     
        
        
       
     
     
 
 
 
    
    
   
  
   
     
  
 
    
  
  
    
        
      
      
 
 
 
 
affiliated with the government of Thailand. His wife is very close to her parents and speaks 
with them weekly via Facetime. If he is not working and at home, he will “sit down and speak 
with them.” He speaks with her mother-in-law and father-in-law when he can so as not to be 
a “bad son-in-law” but it is limited to general conversations. His mother-in-law does not speak 
English, and his father-in-law has limited English language skills. His wife does the translating 
for them. They do not talk about his actual work. His in-laws do not ask about specific details 
of his job. They only know that he is an aircraft mechanic. When he and his wife go back 
for visits, they stay with his in-laws. They have never discussed what if anything his wife 
might inherit after his in-laws pass. He described his in-laws as wealthy by Thai standards. 
However, Applicant and his wife purchased airline tickets for his in-laws so they could come 
and visit the United States. (Tr. 22-25, 33-34, 37-39.) 
SOR ¶ 1.b  alleges Applicant’s  brother-in-law is  a citizen of  Thailand  employed as a 
pilot for the Thai Air  Force. Applicant  first met his brother-in-law  in 2017 when his  brother-in-
law  was still a cadet.  His brother-in-law completed pilot training in the 2020-to-2021-time  
frame. His brother-in-law does not live at  home,  and they do not stay with him  when they  
visit.  He will communicate with his brother-in-law  independently of his wife. Given their shared 
backgrounds  in aviation  they talk generally about aviation. They do not  discuss his work  and  
his brother-in-law “has  never asked specific questions  about what  [Applicant does or how he 
does] it.” The plane his brother-in-law flies  is not what Applicant works on and Applicant’s  
work  is on old aircraft not in use by the U.S. military.  He does not  communicate with his  
brother-in-law on regular schedule. It  could be  weekly  to  once a month dependi ng on their  
schedules.  They do not  do anything socially  online.  His brother-in-law  is not fluent  in English,  
so their conversation is  not detailed.  His wife communicates with her  brother about once a 
month.  (Tr.  23,  34-37,  40, 44-47.)   
Applicant and his wife do not own any property in Thailand. There is an unfunded 
bank account his wife still has in Thailand. He does not have access to it. He and his wife 
own a home in the United States and their personal property and financial accounts are 
in the United States . He plans to retire in the United States. Aside from the alleged 
persons he does not have any continuing contacts with people he met at the ir Thai 
wedding in 2022. His wife is a schoolteacher at the same high school he graduated from. 
He plans to retire in the United States. (Tr. 27-29, 44.) 
Applicant submitted multiple character letters on his behalf, the writers all had prior 
military service. His work colleagues attested to his trustworthiness and dedication. His 
Senior Aerospace Science Instructor from high school, a retired Air Force Chief Master 
Sergeant gave him his highest endorsement as he has demonstrated no lapses in 
judgment or divided loyalty to our country or susceptibility to foreign influences. His former 
instructor noted Applicant “always carved out time to speak to our cadet corps about the 
benefits of service and told them to live their personal and professional life anchored to 
the moral compass of our core values” whenever he was home on leave. (AE A; AE G.) 
In Thailand, the king is the head of government, and individuals are legally 
precluded from publicly criticizing the ruling government and monarchy. However, in July 
to December 2020, there were numerous anti-government protests. The U.S. Department 
3 
  
 
     
    
   
   
    
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
    
   
    
 
 
    
  
  
   
    
  
     
 
   
     
          
  
          
  
     
 
 
 
  
            
 
 
of State at one point issued a Level 3 (Reconsider Travel) advisory for the southernmost 
provinces of Thailand due to civil unrest and terrorist attacks. However, it is a Level 1 
travel advisory as of June 9, 2025, according to the most recent advisory from the 
Department of State. (HE I; AE E.) In 2025, a U.S. aircraft carrier made a port call in 
Thailand. In February 2025, t he U.S. Embassy & Consulate in Thailand extended its 
gratitude on behalf the United States “to our friend and Ally for hosting this w orldclass 
training exercise,” Cobra Gold. (AE F.) 
The current king ascended to the throne in 2019 following the death of his father 
and that same year the civilian authorities were given more authority after the March 2019 
elections. The election results were disputed and widely viewed as skewed, resulting in 
major anti-government protests in 2020, which led to reformist movements culminating in 
the 2023 election of the current prime minister.  The Thailand 2023 Human Rights Report 
reflects that Thailand continues to have significant human rights abuses. (HE I; HE I Item 
IX.) 
China is seeking to expand its power projection in the region. The Chinese Navy 
conducted recent port calls in Thailand, and China conducts regular military exercises 
that include Thailand. In early 2019, the Thai government decided to partner with Huawei 
to build the nation’s 5G network. There is no evidence that Thailand targets the United 
States for military or economic intelligence. (HE I Item V.) 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
decision. An administrative judge must consider all available and reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable, and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
4 
  
 
 
  
                
 
   
  
 
          
 
 
  
 
  
              
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
      
     
 
             
 
   
            
             
          
   
   
 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865 
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant 
has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have 
established for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth., 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 15- 01253 at 3 
(App. Bd. Apr. 20, 2016). 
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial  
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has  the burden of  proving a mitigating condition,  
and the burden of disproving it  never shifts to the Government.  See  ISCR Case No.  02- 
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep.  22,  2005).  
An  applicant “ has  the  ultimate  burden  of demonstrating  that  it  is  clearly  consistent  
with  the  national  interest  to  grant or   continue  his  security  clearance.”  ISCR  Case  No.  01- 
20700 at  3 (App. Bd.  Dec. 19, 2002). “[S]ecurity  clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  Egan, 484 U.S. at 531.   
Analysis  
Guideline  B, Foreign  Influence  
The SOR alleges that Applicant’s father-in-law and mother-in-law are citizens and 
residents of Thailand (SOR ¶¶ 1.a) and that his brother-in-law is a citizen of Thailand and 
a member of the Thai Air Force (SOR ¶ 1.b). 
The security concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 6: 
Foreign contacts and interests, including, but not limited to, business, 
financial, and property interests, are a national security concern if they result 
in divided allegiance. They may also be a national security concern if they 
create circumstances in which the individual maybe manipulated or induced 
to help a foreign person, group, organization, or government in a way 
inconsistent with U.S. interests or otherwise made vulnerable to pressure 
or coercion by any foreign interest. Assessment of foreign contacts and 
5 
  
            
             
           
 
 
 
  
    
            
  
 
     
   
 
   
 
 
 
    
     
   
  
    
 
    
     
 
 
  
    
  
    
 
  
    
  
   
interests should consider the country in which the foreign contact or interest 
is located, including, but not limited to, considerations such as whether it is 
known to target U.S. citizens to obtain classified or sensitive information or 
is associated with a risk of terrorism. 
Guideline B is not limited to countries hostile to the United States. “The United 
States has a compelling interest in protecting and safeguarding classified information 
from any person, organization, or country that is not authorized to have access to it, 
regardless of whether that person, organization, or country has interests inimical to those 
of the United States.” ISCR Case No. 02 -11570 at 5 (App. Bd. May 19, 2004). 
Furthermore, “even friendly nations can have profound disagreements with the United 
States over matters they view as important to their vital interests or national security.” 
ISCR Case No. 00-0317 (App. Bd. Mar. 29, 2002). 
The following disqualifying conditions under this guideline are applicable: 
AG ¶ 7(a):  contact, regardless of method, with a foreign family  mem
 ber,  
business  or professional associate, friend, or other person who is a citizen  
of or resident in a foreign country if that contact creates  a heightened risk  
of foreign exploitation, inducement, manipulation,  pressure, or  coercion; 
and  
AG ¶  7(b): c onnections to a foreign person,  group,  government, or  country  
that create a potential  conflict of interest between the individual's obligation  
to protect classified or sensitive information or technology and the  
individual's desire to help a foreign person, group, or country by providing  
that information or technology.  
Appli
cant's parent-in-laws are elderly. His mother -in-law does not speak English, 
and his father-in-law speaks broken English. Neither have any apparent connections to 
the government of Thailand. Applicant’s brother-in-law is a junior officer in the Thai Air 
Force. They share a mutual interest in flying and keep in touch on a regular basis but not 
on any set schedule. Despite these facts, the relative obscurity of these family members 
does not provide a meaningful measure of whether an applicant's family connections pose 
a security risk. See ISCR Case No. 07-13696 at 5 (App. Bd. Feb. 9, 2009). 
Guideline B is not limited to countries hostile to the United States. “The United 
States has a compelling interest in protecting and safeguarding classified information 
from any person, organization, or country that is not authorized to have access to it, 
regardless of whether that person, organization, or country has interests inimical to those 
of the United States.” ISCR Case No. 02-11570 at 5 (App. Bd. May 19, 2004). 
Furthermore, “even friendly nations can have profound disagreements with the 
United States over matters they view as important to their vital interests or national 
security.” ISCR Case No. 00- 0317 (App. Bd. Mar. 29, 2002). Finally, we know friendly 
nations have engaged in espionage against the United States, especially in the economic, 
6 
  
 
  
  
 
   
 
   
   
 
 
 
          
 
 
 
   
        
    
      
  
      
    
    
     
 
   
 
scientific, and technical fields. Nevertheless, the nature of a nation's government, its 
relationship with the United States, and its human-rights record are relevant in assessing 
the likelihood that an applicant's family members are vulnerable to government coercion. 
The risk of coercion, persuasion, or duress is significantly greater if the foreign country 
has an authoritarian government, a family member is associated with or dependent upon 
the government, or the country is known to conduct intelligence o perations against the 
United States. In considering the nature of the government, an administrative judge must 
also consider any terrorist activity in the country at issue. See generally ISCR Case No. 
02-26130 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 7, 2006) (reversing decision to grant clearance where 
administrative judge did not consider terrorist activity in area where family members 
resided). 
The following mitigating conditions under this guideline are potentially relevant: 
AG  ¶ 8(a):  the nature  of t
 he relationships with foreign persons, the country  
in which these persons are located, or the positions or  activities  of those  
persons  in  that  country  are  such  that  it  is  unlikely  the  individual  will  be  placed  
in a position of having to choose between the interests of  a foreign  
individual,  group,  organization,  or  government  and  the  interests  of t he  U.S;  
AG ¶ 8(b): there is no conflict of interest,  eit her because the individual’s  
sense of loyalty  or obligation to the foreign person,  group,  government, or  
country is so minimal, or the individual has  such deep and longstanding  
relationships and loyalties in the U.S., that the individual can be expected 
to resolve any conflict  of interest in favor  of the U.S. interest;  and  
Appli
cant is a loyal U.S. citizen. He served in the U.S. Navy and continues to work 
in support of the U.S. military mission after he left military service. His wife is a now a U.S. 
citizen and she works in the local community and has developed a close relationship with 
Applicant’s mother. He credibly testified that his relationships with his in-laws in Thailand 
could not be used to coerce or intimidate him into revealing sensitive or classified 
information. His relationship with his in-laws was consistent with the cultural norms of 
Thailand. His connection to his parents-in-law is solely by virtue of his marriage and he is 
only able to communicate with them through the assistance of his spouse. His 
communications with his brother-in-law are limited. By working in the military community, 
he is qualified to understand the threats and be mindful what could be used against him 
in talking to his brother-in-law and can be trusted to act in the favor of the United States. 
Although Thailand has defense-related and commercial contacts with China,  and  
China is seeking to  expand its power  projection in the region, Thailand  is  not hostile to 
the United States.   There is no evidence that Thailand targets the United States  for military  
or industrial intelligence. The State Department recently lowered the travel advisory for  
Thailand.  I find that  Applicant's ties  to Thailand  are outweighed by his  deep and long-
standing relationships  and loyalties in the United States. There is no co nflict of  interest,  
because he can be expected to resolve any conflict of interest in favor of the United  
States. AG ¶¶ 8(a)  and  8(b)  are applicable.  
7 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
  
         
           
 
  
 
            
   
      
    
        
    
  
 
 
   
    
                     
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
  
  
Whole-Person  Concept  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. In applying the whole-
person concept, an administrative judge must evaluate an applicant’s eligibility for a 
security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct and all relevant 
circumstances. An administrative judge should consider the nine adjudicative process 
factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
I have incorporated my comments under Guideline B in my whole-person analysis 
and applied the adjudicative factors in AG ¶ 2(d). Applicant was candid, sincere, and 
persuasive at the hearing. His character letters reflect his sense of duty, responsibility , 
and dedication to his work and country . After weighing the disqualifying and mitigating 
conditions under Guideline B and evaluating all the evidence in the context of the whole 
person, I conclude Applicant has mitigated the security concerns raised by his family ties 
in Thailand. 
Formal  Findings  
I make the following formal findings on the allegations in the SOR: Paragraph 1, 
Guideline B (Foreign Influence):           FOR  APPLICANT  
   Subparagraphs  1
 .a  and 1.b:        For  Applicant  
Conclusion  
I c
onclude that it is clearly consistent with the national security interests of the 
United States to grant Applicant eligibility for access to classified information. Clearance 
is granted. 
Charles C. Hale 
Administrative Judge 
8 