 
 
 
 
                                                              
                             
          
           
             
 
 
     
         
      
    
    
 
 
 
  
   
 
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
     
 
 
   
  
   
   
     
     
           
     
 
 
  
    
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
}IB~l,►. 
ft 0 
~ ~ fiit',7r.eJ .. ,:$ 
1 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ADP Case No. 23-01070 
) 
Applicant for Public Trust Position ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Cassie L. Ford, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
05/27/2025 
Decision 
OLMOS, Bryan J., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to mitigate the trustworthiness concerns under Guideline F 
(Financial Considerations). Eligibility for access to a public trust position is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On September 29, 2023, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing trustworthiness concerns under Guideline F, 
Guideline J (Criminal Conduct) and Guideline G (Alcohol Consumption). This action was 
taken under DOD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance 
Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the Security Executive 
Agent Directive 4 (SEAD 4), establishing in Appendix A the National Security Adjudicative 
Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to 
Hold a Sensitive Position (AGs), effective June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR on January 31, 2024, provided supporting 
documents and requested a hearing before an administrative judge from the Defense 
Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA). On April 17, 2024, Department Counsel 
1 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
 
        
   
    
 
      
        
    
  
 
   
 
     
   
      
    
 
    
       
     
  
     
     
  
 
    
  
     
      
    
    
 
   
     
  
  
amended the SOR and withdrew the trustworthiness concerns under Guideline J and 
Guideline G. 
Following an amendment to scheduling, t he hearing convened on April 24, 2025. 
Department Counsel offered into evidence Government Exhibits (GX) 1- 8, which were 
admitted without objection. Applicant testified and did not provide any additional evidence. 
The record closed at the conclusion of the hearing. DOHA received the hearing transcript 
(Tr.) on May 1, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted all the SOR allegations. His 
admissions are incorporated into my findings of fact. After a thorough review of the 
pleadings and evidence submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact. 
Applicant is 57 years old. He was married from 1993 through 2002, which resulted 
in divorce. He married his second wife in 2006, but they separated in 2019. Neither 
Applicant nor his second wife filed for divorce. He has one 16-year-old child, one adult -
aged child and one adult-aged stepchild. He served in the Navy from 1986 through 2006 
and received an honorable discharge, retiring as a Petty Officer First Class (E6). He 
completed a bachelor’s degree in 2019. (GX 1, 3; Tr. 22-28) 
Applicant began working as a mechanic at his current location in 2019. In about 
January 2023, his current employer took over the contract and he has continued as a full-
time mechanic. He described that his public trust position is necessary to facilitate access 
to his work location. (GX 1, 3; Tr. 24-24, 73-75) 
The SOR alleged that Applicant owed approximately $11,810 in delinquent taxes 
for tax years (TYs) 2013 and 2014 (SOR ¶ 1.b) and that he failed to timely file his Federal 
income tax returns for TY s 2015 through 2022 (SOR ¶ 1.a) . He described that his tax 
difficulties began in 2013 when he discovered he owed about $8,000 in additional taxes 
for TY2012. He claimed that shortly after learning of the debt, he set up an auto-draft for 
payments of $300 per month to the IRS . However, those payments terminated for 
unspecified reasons in about 2014 and were not reinitiated. (GX 3; Tr. 30-34) 
Applicant timely filed his tax return for TY2013. A tax account transcript for 
TY2013, printed in September 2023, reflected that Applicant was assessed an additional 
$8,739 in taxes and received an “accuracy -related penalty” of $782. He recalled owing 
taxes during this time, but did not recall receiving an additional tax assessment or that he 
owed penalties. The tax account transcript showed an ongoing tax debt of $7,983 and no 
history of payments beyond the initial withholding. (GX 3; Tr. 30-32, 64-66) 
Applicant timely filed his tax return for TY2014. The tax account transcript for 
TY2014 reflected that he received penalties for not prepaying his tax debt and that he 
continued to owe about $3,827 in delinquent taxes. He testified that, at an unspecified 
time, he tried to reinitiate a payment plan with the IRS, but was unable to afford the 
2 
 
 
 
 
    
    
    
 
   
    
 
   
       
 
        
 
  
  
 
    
   
 
       
 
 
     
   
  
   
 
      
  
    
  
   
  
 
   
    
   
   
    
requested payment of $500 per month and no payments were sent. The account 
transcript reflected that there was a pending installment agreement in 2016, but no history 
of payments beyond the initial withholding. (GX 3; Tr. 30-33, 65-77) 
After discovering that he owed delinquent taxes, Applicant “panicked” and stopped 
filing subsequent income tax returns. (Tr. 28) Available tax account transcripts show that, 
as of September 2023, he had not filed income tax returns for TYs 2015 through 2021. 
He confirmed at hearing that he had not filed a tax return since TY2014, including for 
TY2024, which would have been due in April 2025. (GX 3; Tr. 40-44, 65-75) 
Applicant was aware of his tax problems since they first began in 2013. However, 
his understanding of the extent of missed filings and taxes owed has varied over time. In 
his August 2019 SCA, he disclosed tax issues limited to TY2018. During his background 
interview with a DOD investigator in December 2019, he disclosed tax difficulties 
beginning in 2012 and stated his belief that he had filed tax returns for TYs 2015 through 
2017. He estimated he owed about $20,000 in delinquent taxes. In his July 2022 response 
to interrogatories, he stated he was aware of his tax debt and intended on addressing it 
after resolving other, smaller debts. In his September 2023 response to interrogatories, 
he confirmed that no tax returns had been filed through TY2022. (GX 1-3) 
Applicant testified  that, on receiving the SOR, he reinitiated efforts to correct his  
tax situation, which included  gathering his W-2s from past  employers. In  early 2025,  he 
spoke  with a tax service to assist with filing all his delinquent income tax returns.  He last  
communicated with the service in April 2025 but had not  yet  filed any  of  his delinquent 
tax returns at the time  of the hearing.  Still,  he  stated his commitment to resolving his tax  
filings  and paying his delinquent  tax debt. He planned on continuing to collect his  W-2s 
and working with the tax  service  he had contacted to get  his returns filed  soon.  (Tr. 28-
31, 65-68)  
The SOR also alleged that Applicant had multiple delinquent accounts that were 
not tax related, totaling approximately $15,374. The debts are established through 
Applicant’s admissions and credit reports. The evidence concerning the specific SOR 
allegations is summarized below. (GX 4-6, 8) 
SOR ¶ 1.c ($1,569) is a credit card account that has been placed for collection. In 
his Answer, Applicant stated that he had reached out to the collection agency and agreed 
to make payments of $125 per month toward the debt. However, he never received an 
agreement in writing from the collection agency and never sent payments. At hearing, he 
confirmed he had not followed up with the collection agency or sent any payments toward 
this debt. (GX 2-6, 8; Tr. 40-44) 
SOR ¶ 1.d ($9,467) is a vehicle loan that has been charged off. Applicant co-signed 
for his stepson to purchase a vehicle in about 2017. In about 2019, his stepson could no 
longer make payments on the loan and the vehicle was voluntarily repossessed. Applicant 
admitted that, as a cosigner to the loan, he was responsible for the debt. However, he 
believes it remains his stepson’s obligation to resolve the debt with the creditor. At the 
3 
 
 
 
 
   
     
 
     
   
     
   
        
    
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
    
  
 
   
 
    
   
     
      
     
   
    
 
  
   
  
    
      
    
  
   
   
 
t
ime of the hearing, Applicant had not communicated with the creditor or sent any 
payments toward this debt. (GX 1-6; Tr. 45-48) 
SOR ¶ 1.e ($2,098) is a credit card account that has been charged off. In his July 
2022 response to interrogatories, Applicant stated that he paid this debt, and it was 
resolved. At hearing, he again stated his belief that the debt was paid but admitted he did 
not follow up with the creditor. He did not provide any supporting documents. The debt 
appeared on his November 2019 and March 2023 credit reports as delinquent but is not 
on his September 2023 or April 2025 credit reports. (GX 2-8; Tr. 47-50) 
 SOR ¶  1.f ($1,217) is a credit card account that has been transferred to a collection  
agency. In 2019, the collection agency  obtained a financial judgment against Applicant.  
Applicant  disputes the  validity of  the judgment as it was issued in a  state that he had  not  
lived in  for over a decade. However,  he recognized the delinquent debt  from  the original  
creditor. In his July 2022 response to interrogatories, he stated he  had requested details  
of the debt  from the creditor to s end a payment. However, he testified that he never  
received any information and did not follow up with the creditor.  (GX 2-7; Tr. 48-52, 69-
70)  
SOR ¶ 1.g ($1,023) is a credit card account that was transferred to a collection 
agency. In his interrogatory responses, Answer , and at hearing, Applicant consistently 
stated that, at an unspecified time, the electronic credentials of this credit card were 
stolen, and unapproved charges were placed on the account. He testified that he paid the 
valid charges and disputed the remaining balance. His March 2023 credit report reflects 
that the account information was disputed, and the debt does not appear on his 
September 2023 and April 2025 credit reports. (GX 2-6, 8; Tr. 71-72) 
Applicant testified that, while he was able to maintain consistent employment, he 
experienced financial stress relating to his marital separation in 2019 and, over time, while 
assisting various family members with their expenses. He described himself as a financial 
base of support for his brothers and stepson. Several times in the past, he felt like his 
financial plans had been “sidetracked” by trying to help family. (GX 2) He admitted that 
he hid the extent that he was financially assisting his family from his wife , which was a 
significant stressor leading to their separation. He continued to help during the COVID 
pandemic when several family members were out of work. (GX 1-3; Tr. 49-60) 
Applicant stated that, in recent years, his financial situation has improved. In 
addition to his current monthly income of about $4,500, he receives about $760 in military 
retirement and another $1,000 in monthly benefits based on a 40% disability rating in 
relation to his military service. He lives on his own and described not having significant 
personal expenditures. He stated he can pay his monthly bills and is current on a monthly 
child-support payment of $500. Still, he admitted he did not keep a monthly budget since 
he always seemed to have unexpected expenditures, particularly in relation to his family. 
At the hearing, Applicant committed to reducing his family support and focusing on his 
own financial situation. He has not received any financial counseling. (GX 3; Tr. 27-51) 
4 
 
 
 
 
   
     
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
  
    
 
  
  
 
   
 
  
   
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the hearing, Applicant highlighted his 20 years of military service as a reflection 
that he was reliable, trustworthy, and exercised good judgment. He further noted that his 
April 2025 credit report showed no new delinquent accounts. (Tr. 70-76) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a public trust position, the 
administrative judge must consider the disqualifying and mitigating conditions in the AG. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of 
human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the factors listed in the 
adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, 
impartial and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a), the entire process is a 
conscientious scrutiny of several variables known as the “whole- person concept.” The 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. Likewise, I have avoided drawing inferences grounded on mere 
speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable trustworthiness 
decision. 
A person who seeks access to sensitive information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
sensitive information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or safeguard sensitive 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as 
to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of sensitive information. 
An
alysis 
Guideline F, Financial Considerations 
5 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
    
    
  
   
 
     
       
  
  
    
  
 
 
    
 
 
 
   
  
 
   
    
   
  
       
   
      
  
The trustworthiness concern relating to the guideline for financial considerations is 
set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's  means, satisfy debts, and meet financial  
obligations may  indicate poor  self-control, lack of judgment, or  
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise  
questions about  an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to  
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial  distress can  also be  
caused or exacerbated by,  and thus can be a possible indicator of, other  
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling,  mental  
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An  
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to  
engage in illegal  or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds.  . . .   
The financial trustworthiness concern is broader than the possibility that an 
individual might knowingly compromise sensitive information to raise money. It 
encompasses concerns about an individual’s self-control, judgment, and other qualities 
essential to protecting sensitive information. An individual who is financially irresponsible 
may also be irresponsible, unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding 
classified information or sensitive information. See ISCR Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. 
Bd. May 1, 2012) Additionally, the failure to file tax returns suggests that an applicant has 
a problem with complying with well -established governmental rules and systems. 
Voluntary compliance with such rules and systems is essential for protecting classified 
information and sensitive information. See ISCR Case No. 01-05340 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 
5, 2002) 
The adjudicative guideline notes several conditions that could raise 
trustworthiness concerns under AG ¶ 19. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a)  in
ability to  satisfy debts;  
(c)  a history of  not meeting financial obligations; and  
(f) fai
lure to file or fraudulently filing annual Federal, state, or local income 
tax returns or failure to pay annual Federal, state, or local income tax as 
required. 
Applicant’s admissions and the evidence reflect that he has not filed Federal 
income tax returns for TYs 201 5 through 2022 and owes delinquent taxes as alleged in 
the SOR. He also incurred multiple delinquent consumer accounts over the last several 
years. The above disqualifying conditions are established. 
Once delinquent debts are established, an applicant has the burden of presenting 
evidence to refute, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the trustworthiness concerns arising 
from those debts. See ISCR 20-03146 at 3 (App. Bd. June 6, 2022). The fact that a debt 
no longer appears on a credit report does not establish any meaningful, independent 
6 
 
 
 
 
     
  
 
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
     
   
   
   
    
  
     
    
   
   
 
      
  
  
     
  
  
   
evidence as to the disposition of the debt. See ISCR Case No. 14-03612 at 3 (App. Bd. 
Aug. 15, 2015). 
Conditions that could mitigate the financial considerations trustworthiness 
concerns are provided under AG ¶ 20. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
und
er such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good judgment;  
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial  pr oblem were largely beyond  
the per son's  control (e.g.,  loss of  employment, a business downturn,  
unexpected medical  emergency, a death, divorce or separation, clear  
victimization by  predatory  lending practi ces, or identity theft),  and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
(d) the individual initiated and is  adhering to a good- faith effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  
(e) the individual has  a r easonable basis to  dispute the legitimacy  of the 
past-due debt which is  the cause of the problem and provides documented  
proof to substantiate the basis of  the dispute or provides evidence of  actions  
to resolve the issue; and  
(g) the
 individual has made arrangements with the appropriate tax authority 
to file or pay the amount owed and is in compliance with those 
arrangements. 
At the hearing, Applicant acknowledged that he initially “panicked” regarding his 
tax situation. However, in the years that followed, he still had not filed his income tax 
returns for TYs 2015 through 2022. Instead, his failure to file tax returns has expanded 
since the SOR to include TYs 2023 and 2024. While these additional tax years were not 
alleged in the SOR, they undercut assertions of mitigation as his tax problems are recent 
and ongoing. Additionally, the true nature of his tax debt remains largely unknown as he 
has not filed a tax return for nearly a decade. His recent efforts t o collect his W -2s and 
communicate with a tax service are positive steps toward resolving his tax problems. 
However, they are insufficient to mitigate the ongoing trustworthiness concerns. None of 
the mitigating conditions are applicable to SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b. 
Regarding his remaining debts, Applicant’s separation in 2019 was an unforeseen 
event beyond his control that caused financial stress and is unlikely to recur. Mitigation 
under AG ¶¶ 20(a) and 20(b) must be considered. However, he also admitted that a 
considerable amount of his financial difficulties resulted from his decision to financially 
assist his family. He has continued to assist family while disregarding his own delinquent 
debts. While his current financial situation appears to have improved and he has not 
experienced any new delinquent debts, he acknowledged at hearing that he is unable to 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
    
    
     
 
    
   
    
   
 
 
    
    
  
  
  
   
 
  
     
    
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
     
 
maintain a monthly budget because he still contends with unexpected needs and 
expenditures relating to his family. Further, while several of his delinquent debts no longer 
appear on his April 2025 credit report, this alone does not establish that the debt s were 
resolved. He has not taken reasonable action to resolve these ongoing debts or 
established that his debts are unlikely to recur. Mitigati on under AG ¶¶ 20(a) or 20(b) is 
not applicable to the remaining SOR allegations. 
Applicant further contends that he paid the debt associated with SOR ¶ 1.e. 
However, he did not provide documents reflecting any payments toward this debt and has 
not otherwise shown a meaningful track record of repayment to a establish good- faith 
effort to repay overdue creditors. Mitigation under AG ¶ 20(d) is not applicable to the 
remaining SOR allegations. 
Regarding SOR ¶ 1.g, in his interrogatory responses, Answer , and at hearing, 
Applicant consistently described that the credit card associated with this allegation was 
compromised and unapproved charges were placed on his account. He testified that he 
disputed this account, which is reflected in his March 2023 credit report. The charge was 
removed from subsequent credit reports. His actions regarding this debt are sufficient to 
establish mitigation under AG ¶ 20(e) for SOR ¶ 1.g. 
Applicant’s tax situation and financial difficulties are ongoing. He has not made 
sufficient progress for any of the mitigat ing conditions for financial considerations to be 
fully applicable. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a position of public trust by considering the totality of the 
applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should 
consider the nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
position of public trust must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
    
   
   
       
    
 
 
      
     
 
  
 
   
 
    
 
 
    
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guideline F in my whole-person analysis. 
Applicant served in the Navy for 20 years and retired honorably. At the hearing, he 
candidly spoke about his past financial difficulties and appeared earnest in his desire to 
resolve his ongoing tax and financial concerns. Nonetheless, he has experienced an 
extended period of not meeting his tax obligations and has ongoing financial difficulties. I 
conclude he has not mitigated the financial considerations trustworthiness concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  G
 uideline F:   AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a  –  1.f:   Against  Applicant  
Subparagraph 1.g:   For Applicant  
Conclusion  
In l
ight of all of the circumstances, it is not clearly consistent with the national 
interest to grant Applicant a position of public trust. Eligibility for access to sensitive 
information is denied. 
Bryan J. Olmos 
Administrative Judge 
9 