      
        
  
   
 
     
 
  
 
 
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 23-00198 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: 
Nicole A. Smith, Esquire, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: 
Alan Edmunds, Esquire 
The Edmunds Law Firm 
04/08/2025 
Decision 
ROSS, Wilford H., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not mitigate the security concerns under Guidelines E 
(Personal Conduct) and F (Financial Considerations). He mitigated the 
security concerns under Guidelines I (Psychological Conditions), J (Criminal 
Conduct), and H (Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse). Eligibility for access to 
classified information is denied. 
1 
 
 
  
  
 
   
Statement of the Case 
On July 31, 2023, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guidelines I, J, H, E and 
F.  The action was taken under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified  
Information within Industry  (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 5220.6,  
Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program  (January 2, 1992), as  
amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) implemented by the DOD on  
June 8, 2017. 
Applicant 
responded to the SOR in writing (Answer) on October 2, 2023, 
attaching Applicant Answer Exhibits A through N. In his Answer he requested a hearing 
before an administrative judge. Department Counsel was prepared to proceed on 
February 8, 2024. The case was assigned to me on February 16, 2024. The Defense 
Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued an initial Notice of Hearing on April 11, 
2024. Hearings in this case were held on August 27, 2024; and September 3, 2024. 
The Government offered Government Exhibits 1 through 16, which were admitted 
without objection. The Government also asked that I take administrative notice of 
certain extracts from the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders 
(DSM-5). Applicant had no objection and the extracts are admitted into the record as 
Hearing Exhibit I. (August 27, 2024 transcript at 20-22 (8/27/24 Tr. ).) Applicant testified 
on his own behalf and submitted Applicant Exhibits A through E, which were admitted 
without objection. He requested that the record remain open for the receipt of 
additional documentation. He submitted Applicant Exhibits F and G in a timely fashion, 
and they were admitted without objection. DOHA received the transcript of the 
September 3, 2024 hearing (Tr.) on September 13, 2024. All citations in this decision 
are to this transcript unless otherwise indicated. The record closed on October 11, 
2024. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 40 years old, has a partner, and one child with his partner. He had 
been married once before. He has a master’s degree . He has been employed by a 
defense contractor as a role player since April 2021. He has prior military experience in 
the United States Marine Corps. He received an Honorable Discharge for his service. 
(Government Exhibit 1 at Sections 12, 13A, and 18; Applicant Exhibits I, K, L, and M; 
8/27/24 Tr. at 7-8.) 
Applicant was injured during his military service while on duty overseas in a combat 
zone in 2009. He was hospitalized and eventually medically retired due to his injuries. 
(Applicant Exhibit H; Tr. 11.) 
2 
 
          
          
              
   
     
       
         
         
  
         
        
       
      
       
     
            
 
      
       
          
    
          
 
During his hospitalization and convalescence he was prescribed Oxycodone. By 
2014 he admits that he was addicted to the drug. This addiction continued until 2018, with 
one subsequent slip in 2020. As further described below, he has been drug free since 
approximately June 2020. (Tr. 11-18.) 
Paragraph 1 (Guideline I, Psychological Conditions)  
The Government alleged in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance 
because he has engaged in conduct that may show emotional, mental or personality 
conditions that can impair judgment, reliability, or trustworthiness. He admitted allegations 
1.a, 1.c, and 1.d with explanations. He admitted in part and denied in part allegation 1.b. 
He admitted with clarifications allegations 1.e and 1.f. He denied allegation 1.g. 
Allegations 1.a, 1.b, 2.e, and 3.c all relate to the same fact situation. On November 
5, 2016, Applicant was involved in a serious automobile accident. During the investigation 
ten pounds of marijuana was found in his car. He denie d that the marijuana was his. 
Rather, he stated the marijuana belonged to a then-friend who ran a marijuana farm and 
dispensary. Applicant was subsequently charged with (1) Felony Possession of Marijuana 
for Sale, (2) Transportation of Marijuana for Sale , (3) Misdemeanor Driving Under the 
Influence (DUI); and (4) Driving with a Suspended License resulting from a prior DUI 
conviction. (Government Exhibit 8; Tr. 42-48, 65.) 
As a result of his arrest Applicant attended a seven-day detoxification program at 
a treatment center (TC 1) that was contracted by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). 
During that hospitalization he was diagnosed with Oxycodone Use Disorder, 
Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), and Unspecified Depressive Disorder. After his 
stay at TC 1 he returned to the VA and continued outpatient treatment. (Government 
Exhibit 11 at 1-16; Tr. 17-18, 46-47.) 
1.c.  Applicant received  outpatient  drug  treatment for his addiction  to  Oxycodone  at 
various facilities of the  VA  from  approximately January 2017  to  at least May 2019. He  
also received  treatment for PTSD and  his depression.  During  his treatment  he tested  
positive for Oxycodone  several times.  He freely admits that he  had  difficulties with  his  
addiction  during  this time. The  VA  continued  to  follow him  during  periods of treatment in  
non-government facilities. (Government Exhibit 10  at 159-723; Tr. 47-53.)  
1.d  and  1.e. In  November 2017, during  a  period  Applicant  was having  serious 
issues with  Oxycodone,  he  again attended  TC  1  for detoxification. After the  week-long  
detoxification  period  he  entered  inpatient treatment at  the  same  location, which  was  
supposed  to  last 30  days. He  did  not  complete  the  program  and  left  against  medical  
3 
 
           
      
       
         
      
 
     
      
      
        
      
        
           
        
      
     
      
       
         
 
advice. According to Applicant, there was a lot of drug use at the facility and he did not 
find the program helpful to his recovery. (Government Exhibit 11 at 18-51; Tr. 50-52.) 
1.f.  Applicant  stated  that he  stopped  using  illegal drugs after the  incident discussed 
in 2.f,  below. In  June  2020,  while  in another state  and  during  the  COVID-19  lockdown, he  
had  a slip and used  Oxycodone. In June 2020 he  entered TC 2, which is not in his home  
state.  He successfully completed  inpatient treatment  at  TC  2. (Applicant Answer Exhibit  
C; Tr. 58-62, 105-106.)  
1.g.  Applicant  denied  this allegation  that stated  he  failed  to  follow recommended 
treatment advice  and  had  not  abstained  from  using  Oxycodone.  He stated  in  his  Answer,  
“I deny that all  attempts were  not successful. I have  succeeded  in the  12-step  meetings I  
attended, and  have not used Oxycodone since 2020.”  He expresses  a  credible  intent  not  
to  use  Oxycodone  or other illegal drugs  in the  future.  He has found, and  is using, other  
means to control his pain. (Applicant Exhibit  A; Tr. 62-63.)  
Applicant obtained a psychological assessment in June 2024. The psychologist 
prepared a report, Applicant Exhibit A. In that report the psychologist described in detail 
Applicant’s struggles to control his drug use, PTSD, and depression. He makes the 
following conclusions: 
IMPRESSION: [Applicant] has a significant history of opioid dependence 
that began after he suffered from significant injuries while deployed as a 
Marine. He admitted to regular abuse of these opioids that included him 
purchasing them from street dealers. [Applicant] a ttempted to get sober 
several times and was not successful until he had a near-death experience 
in 2018. This incident caused him to become highly motivated to become 
sober and he was eventually able to achieve that goal in 2020. [Applicant] 
denied any relapses since 2020 and is in a position that conducts random 
drug tests. None of his tests have resulted in positive readings. According 
to the best available evidence , [Applicant] does not meet criteria for any 
clinical and substance use disorders at this time . The diagnoses listed 
below reflect what he likely suffered from during the height of his 
dependency, while underscoring the fact that they are in a state of 
remission. 
DIAGNOSES:  
Posttraumatic stress disorder, resolved   (F43.10)  
Opioid  use disorder, in sustained remission  (F11.20.)  
4 
 
       
       
     
 
    
         
             
 
PROGNOSIS:  [Applicant’s]  judgment,  reliability, or trustworthiness  do  not  
currently appear to  be  impaired  by any psychological defect,  substance  use  
disorder, or underlying  condition  at this time.  There  is no  evidence  of him  
suffering  from  any functional impairment caused  by psychological issues. 
[Applicant’s] stability will  be  contingent upon  his continued  engagement with  
his healthy behaviors, complete  abstinence  from  narcotics, and  his  
willingness to seek assistance if his condition  worsens.  
Applicant’s treating physician at the VA also submitted a letter. He states, 
“[Applicant] has been voluntarily adherent to treatment and has been attending 
appointments. He has been in good spirits and participating eagerly in treatment.” 
(Applicant Exhibit C.) 
Paragraph 2 (Guideline J, Criminal Conduct)  
The Government alleged in this paragraph that Applicant is not eligible for access 
because he has engaged in criminal conduct. Applicant admitted allegations 2.b, 2.c, 2.d, 
and 2.f. He admitted allegation 2.e with a clarification. He denied allegation 2.a with a 
clarification. 
2.a. In  December 2012  Applicant was involved  in a  physical altercation  with  a  man 
who  Applicant believed  had touched  his  then-wife  inappropriately. He states that he  was  
charged  with  a  felony in  the  third  degree,  not second  degree  as alleged  in the  SOR. “[T]he  
court mandated  that  I attend  anger management classes, pay  a  fine, and  write  an  apology 
letter as part of the  resolution. After completing  those  requirements, the  charges were  
dropped.” FBI records in the file confirm his statements.  (Government Exhibit 4;  Answer;  
Applicant Answer Exhibit F; Tr. 28-30.)  
2.b. Applicant admitted  that he  was arrested  in  August 2012  for DUI.  He pled  guilty 
and was placed  on  probation until October 2017. (Government Exhibit 5; Tr. 19-21.)  
2.c.  Applicant admitted  that he  was charged  with  driving  on  a  suspended  license 
in January 2014. At that time  he  was on  probation  for the  allegation  2.b  offense.  
(Government Exhibit 6;  Tr.  30.)  
2.d. Applicant admitted  that he  was charged  with  driving  on  a  suspended  license 
in December 2015. At  that  time  he  was on  probation  for the  allegation  2.b  offense.  He  
was put on  summary  probation  for 24  months, ordered  to  pay fines, and  refrain  from  
driving  with  any measurable amounts of drugs or alcohol in  his blood.  (Government  
Exhibit 7; Tr. 34.)  
2.e. See the discussion under allegations 1.a and 1.b, above. 
5 
 
     
           
 
     
     
        
   
2.f. Applicant was involved in a serious automobile accident on October 18, 2018. 
He had  overdosed, crashed  his car, and  was nonresponsive when  paramedics arrived.  
He had  to  be  revived  with  Narcan. He  was charged  with  Driving  on  a  Suspended  License,  
and  Possession  of  a  Controlled  Substance.  In  September 2020  he  was  sentenced  to  
serve 30  days in  jail, pay fines,  and  was put on  summary probation  for 36  months. The  
probation  ended  in September  2023.  (Government Exhibit  9;  Applicant Answer Exhibits  
D and  E; Tr. 54-57, 65-67.)   
Paragraph 3 (Guideline H, Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse)  
The Government alleged in this paragraph that Applicant is not eligible for access 
because he has used illegal drugs. He admitted all the allegations under this guideline 
with explanations. 
3.a. Applicant used  Oxycodone  from  about 2009, after he  was injured  while on 
active  duty,  to  October 2018, after  the  accident described  in  allegation  2.f, above. He 
became  addicted  to  the  drug  in  approximately 2014.  He  stopped  until June  2020,  when  
he  had  a  slip.  He has  not  used  Oxycodone  since  June  2020.  He  submitted  a  signed  
statement of intent not to used  Oxycodone or any other illegal drug in the future. He also  
submitted  recent negative  urinalysis  tests  that were  performed  by the  VA  in  connection  
with  his ongoing treatment. (Applicant Exhibits  A and  G; Tr. 10, 23-28, 31, 64-65.)  
3.b.  Applicant  admitted  picking  marijuana  for a  friend  who  owned  a  legal 
dispensary. He  stated  that his involvement in  the  marijuana  farm  was very short-lived, 
since  he  does not  use  marijuana. The  friend  was the  person  involved  in  the  accident  
described  under allegation  1.a, above. He further stated  that he  never told a  medical  
provider at the  VA  in  January 2017  that he  was a  marijuana  farmer.  He argues that any  
statements like  this were exaggerations on  his part. (Government Exhibit 10  at 544, 690, 
769; Tr. 36-42.)  
3.c. See  the  discussion under allegations 1.a and 1.b, above. 
Paragraph 4  (Guideline E, Personal Conduct)  
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance 
because he has engaged in conduct that shows poor judgment, untrustworthiness, or 
unreliability. Applicant admitted allegation s 4.a through 4.e, 4.g through 4.k, and 4.m 
under this guideline. He denied allegations 4.f and 4.l. 
6 
 
        
         
         
      
   
         
    
   
            
         
 
         
          
      
            
          
        
  
Applicant  filled  out his  e-QIP on  July 6, 2021. (Government Exhibit 1.) Allegations  
4.a  through  4.g  are  related  to  that questionnaire.  His testimony  about  this  questionnaire 
was often confusing  and contradictory. 
4.a.  Section  26  of that questionnaire  concerns his financial situation. Two 
subsections ask whether, within  seven  years of filling  out the  questionnaire,  Applicant  had  
bills or debts turned  over to  a  collection  agency;  or had  any  account  or credit card  
suspended, charged  off, or cancelled  for failing  to  pay as agreed? He  answered  the  
questions, “No.” As described  under Paragraph  5, below, Applicant  had  past-due  debts  
that had  been  turned  over to  collection  agencies  and  his accounts  had  been  cancelled  by  
several creditors. These  were  false answers  to  relevant questions  about h is  financial  
situation.  
Applicant stated that his false answers to this particular question were 
unintentional. However, he also stated that he was embarrassed about his delinquencies. 
He testified that he told the Government investigator who interviewed him in October 2021 
about his delinquencies. The Report of Investigation (ROI) prepared at that time only 
shows one possible delinquent debt. (Tr. 80-86; Government Exhibit 2.) 
4.b. Section 22 of the same questionnaire concerns Applicant’s police record. One 
subsection asks, “Have you EVER been charged with any felony offense.” (All emphasis 
in original.) He answered, “No.” This was a false answer to a relevant question about his 
police record since he had been arrested for a felony as set forth in allegation 2.a. He 
testified that he had forgotten about this charge and believed it was only a misdemeanor. 
(Tr. 86-88.) 
4.c.  A  different  subsection  of Section  22  of  the  same  questionnaire  asks  Applicant, 
“Have  you  EVER  been  charged  with  an  offense  involving  alcohol or drugs?” (All  emphasis  
in original.) He answered, “No.” This was a false answer to  a relevant question  about his  
police  record since  he  had  been  charged  with  drug  and  alcohol offenses  as set forth  in  
allegations 2.b  and  2.e  in 2012  and  2016.  He had  earlier in the  e-QIP  admitted  the  
allegation  2.f  incident  from  2018. He testified  that he  knew he  had  additional  charges but  
did not know the dates.  (Tr. 88-90.)  
4.d. A third subsection to Section 22 of the same questionnaire asks Applicant 
whether he had been on parole or probation within seven years of the current date. He 
stated, “No.” This was a false answer to a relevant question about his police record since 
he was on probation at the time he completed the questionnaire. He testified that he 
thought he was no longer on probation at the time of the questionnaire. While he had 
previously admitted the allegation 1.f incident , he concealed the fact of his probation, 
which had only begun months before. (Tr. 90-91; 106-107.) 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
      
        
       
  
 
 
 
        
               
  
 
       
        
      
 
 
 
 
4.e.  Section  23  of the  same  questionnaire  concerns Applicant’s illegal use  of  drugs  
and  drug  activity. One  subsection  asks him  whether he  had  used  illegal drugs  or 
controlled  substances  within the  last seven  years. He answered  that he  had  used  
Oxycodone  from  September  2016  to  January  2019. This was  a  false  answer to  a  relevant  
question  about his drug  use, since  he  had  used  Oxycodone  from  at least 2009  through  
June  2020.  He testified  that he  did  not intend  to  deceive the  Government by his  
responses. (Tr. 91-92.)  
4.f. A different subsection of Section 23 of the  same questionnaire  asks Applicant  
whether, within the  last seven  years, he  had  “been  involved  in the  illegal purchase,   
manufacture,  cultivation, trafficking,  production, transfer,  shipping, receiving, handling, or  
sale of any drug or controlled substance?”  Applicant answered, “No.”  
Applicant argues that, while he was briefly involved in his friend’s dispensary and 
farm, he was never a marijuana farmer and did not sell marijuana at any time. There is a 
factual dispute about this allegation, specifically whether Applicant had an intent to 
deceive. This dispute cannot be resolved given the current state of the record. This 
allegation is found for Applicant. (Tr. 92.) 
4.g. Another subsection  of Section  23  of the  same  questionnaire  asks Applicant,  
“Have  you  EVER  voluntarily sought  counseling  or treatment as a  result of your use  of  a  
drug  or controlled  substance?” (All  emphasis in  original.) Applicant  answered,  “Yes,” and  
described  treatment  for approximately four months  in 2019  with  a  therapist.  This was  a  
false answer to a relevant question about his treatment in that he  minimized  the years of  
treatment with the  VA  or his three hospitalizations.   
Applicant argues that he knew he had been in treatment longer, but did not know 
the exact dates. He also stated he could not recall why he did not set forth on the e -QIP 
the treatment discussed under allegation 1.f, above. (Tr. 93-95.) 
Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator of the US Department of 
Defense on October 12, 2021. As stated, a ROI was prepared by the investigator. 
Applicant reviewed the ROI and confirmed its accuracy on April 11, 2023. Allegations 4.h 
through 4.k are related to that interview. (Government Exhibit 2.) 
4.h.  During  the  interview Applicant  discussed  his use  of  Oxycodone. He  told  the  
investigator that  he  had  begun  using  Oxycodone  while in  the  military and  had  not used  
the  drug  since  2019. There is some  dispute  as to  when  he  began  using  Oxycodone, but  
he has admitted  using  the  drug  one  time  in June  2020. Applicant states that  he  was not  
trying to  hide anything  with his false answer. (Government  Exhibit 2  at 7; Tr. 96-97.)  
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
         
        
       
 
 
 
 
4.i. During  the  interview Applicant also discussed  his drug  treatment.  He stated  
that  he had  received  treatment in 2014 and again  in  2019,  as  stated  in  his e-QIP.  He  did  
not volunteer all  the  treatment he  had  as described  in allegations 1.a  through  1.f.  
Applicant testified  that it was not his intent to  conceal anything  from  the  Government about  
his treatment.  (Government Exhibit 2 at 7; Tr. 97.)  
4.j. During  the  interview Applicant  was  asked  about  incidents  involving  driving  
under the  influence. He  did not admit the  2012  arrest for DUI set forth  under allegation  
2.b, above, and  had  to  be  confronted  with  the  facts.  He stated  during  the  interview that  
this was an  unintended  oversight  based  on  a  misreading  of the  question.  (Government  
Exhibit 2 at 8; Tr. 98.)  
4.k.  During  the  interview  Applicant  was asked  if  he  was currently  on  parole  or  
probation.  He  did  not tell  the  interviewer that he  was currently on  probation  for the  arrest  
set forth  under allegation  2.f,  above. He  maintains that was an  innocent mistake  and  was 
not done  with  the  intent to  deceive.  He also  testified  that he  fulfilled  all  of  the  court  
requirements after every one  of his arrests.  (Tr. 98-99,  106-107.)  
4.l. Applicant was  propounded  a  set  of  interrogatories concerning  his drug  
involvement. He answered  and  signed  them  on  April 11, 2023. Section  II  of the  
interrogatories asked  him  about the  extent of his drug  use.  He answered  that he  used  
Oxycodone  from  October 2015  through  June  2020, using  one  pill three  times a  day. This  
answer was false because  it understated  both  the  time  frame  when  he  was using  the  
drug,  and  the  amount  he  was taking  during  that time.  Applicant maintained  that  it was not  
his intent to deceive the Government. (Government Exhibit 2 at 15; Tr. 100-103.)  
4.m. Applicant was propounded  a  separate  set of interrogatories that he  signed  on  
May 18, 2023. He was asked  several questions about his alleged  involvement in  
marijuana  farming.  He stated  that  he  had  never maintained  a  marijuana  farm. Instead, as  
previously stated, the farm  belonged a friend  who owned a  dispensary. He further stated  
he never otherwise grew, sold,  or made  money from  marijuana. (Government Exhibit 3  at  
2; Tr. 103-104.)  
Applicant has adamantly stated he had minimal involvement with marijuana 
farming. He no longer associates with the person who ran the dispensary. There is a 
factual dispute about this allegation, specifically whether Applicant had an intent to 
deceive. This dispute cannot be resolved given the current state of the record. This 
allegation is found for Applicant. 
9 
 
     
     
       
         
      
     
      
           
    
 
        
      
 
Paragraph 5  (Guideline F, Financial Considerations)  
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance 
because he is financially overextended and therefore potentially unreliable, 
untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds. Applicant 
admitted allegations 5.a, 5.b, 5.d, 5.f, and 5.g under this guideline with explanations and 
clarifications. He denied allegations 5.c and 5.e. The Government provided credit reports 
of Applicant dated September 1, 2021; November 17, 2022; June 20, 2023; and August 
20, 2024, supporting the existence of the debts. ( Government Exhibits 13, 14, 15, and 
16.) The existence of the debts is also supported by Applicant’s testimony and credit 
reports supplied by him dated September 28, 2023; and August 6, 2024. ( Applicant 
Answer Exhibit N; Applicant Exhibit E.) 
Applicant maintains that his delinquent indebtedness was due to his drug 
involvement, which cost him a lot of money. He currently is financially stable. (Tr. 69-70, 
76-78.) 
The current status of the debts in the SOR is as follows: 
5.a. Applicant admitted  that he  owed  Bank A  approximately $21,109  for an  account 
that  has been  charged  off.  He  believes that he  settled  either this debt  or  the  one  in  
allegation  5.b  with  the  creditor.  However,  he  provided  no  documentation  to  support his  
statement.  This debt has fallen  off his credit report. The  debt is not resolved. (Tr. 70- 71, 
79-80.) 
5.b.  Applicant admitted  that he  owed  Bank A  approximately $20,219  for an  account 
that  has been  charged  off. He  believes that he  settled  either this debt  or  the  one  in  
allegation  5.a  with  the  creditor.  However,  he  provided  no  documentation  to  support his  
statement.  This debt has fallen  off his credit report. The  debt is not resolved. (Tr. 70- 71, 
79-80.) 
5.c.  Applicant denied  owing  a  creditor $12,378  for a  past-due  debt.  The 
government’s latest credit report showed  that this debt has been   paid. This debt is  
resolved. (Government Exhibit 16  at 3; Tr. 71-72.)  
5.d.  Applicant admitted  that he  owed  Bank A  $6,503  for a  debt that had  been 
charged  off. No payments have  been  made  towards this debt.  The  debt is not resolved.  
(Tr. 73.)   
5.e.  Applicant  denied  that  he  owed  $300  for a  past-due  medical debt.  No payments 
have  been  made towards this debt. The debt is not resolved. (Tr. 73-74.) 
10 
 
     
 
  
  
        
  
5.f.  Applicant admitted  that he owed  a  creditor $4,093  for a  debt  that had  been 
charged  off.  Applicant stated  he  may have  made  payments on  this debt.  No  records were  
provided  to  show that this debt  had  been  paid  or resolved. The  debt is not  resolved.  (Tr.  
74-75.) 
5.g.  Applicant admitted  that he  had  owed  a  creditor $3,876  for a  delinquent 
account.  He provided  documentation  showing  that he  had  resolved  this debt in 
September 2023. This debt is resolved. (Applicant Exhibit B; Tr. 73-74.)  
Mitigation  
Applicant had a successful military career before his service -related injury. 
(Applicant Exhibits K, L, and M.) 
Applicant is a successful employee . His evaluations show that h is work meets or 
is above standards. (Applicant Answer Exhibit J; Applicant Exhibits D and F; Tr. 67-69.) 
Applicant’s best friend since the sixth grade, a surgeon, submitted a letter on 
Applicant’s behalf. The writer has knowledge of Applicant’s issues. He states: 
[Applicant’s] integrity is unquestionable , and  he  consistently strives to  be  
the  best version  of himself.  [Applicant’s]  journey of  recovery and  personal  
growth  is a  testament to  his character and  his unwavering  commitment to  
self-improvement.  
In  conclusion, I wholeheartedly recommend  [Applicant]. He  is an  
extraordinary individual who  has shown immense  strength, dedication  and  
compassion throughout his life. (Applicant Exhibit B.)  
Policies  
When  evaluating  an  applicant’s national security eligibility for a  security clearance,  
the  administrative  judge  must  consider the  adjudicative  guidelines. In  addition  to  brief  
introductory explanations for each  guideline, the  adjudicative  guidelines (AG) list 
potentially disqualifying  conditions and  mitigating  conditions, which  are to  be  used  in  
evaluating  an  applicant’s national security eligibility.  
11 
 
          
      
         
       
   
       
            
 
      
     
         
       
       
 
          
       
    
         
     
  
       
     
      
          
             
    
 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. The entire 
process is a conscientious scrutiny of applicable guidelines in the context of a number of 
variables known as the whole -person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires, “Any doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. I have not drawn inferences based on mere speculation or 
conjecture. 
Directive ¶  E3.1.14, requires the  Government to  present evidence  to  establish  
controverted  facts  alleged  in the  SOR. Under Directive ¶  E3.1.15, “The  applicant is   
responsible  for presenting  witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or  
mitigate  facts admitted  by the  applicant or proven  by Department Counsel, and  has the  
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining  a favorable clearance  decision.”  
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants national 
security eligibility. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk the 
applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or safeguard classifi ed 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as 
to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified or sensitive information. 
Finally, as emphasized in Section 7 of Executive Order 10865, “Any determination under 
this order adverse to an applicant shall be a determination in terms of the national interest 
and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” 
See also Executive Order 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information.) 
12 
 
 
      
 
   
     
       
    
        
       
        
         
 
          
 
            
 
Analysis 
Paragraph 1 (Guideline I, Psychological Conditions)  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Psychological Conditions is set 
out in AG ¶ 27: 
Certain emotional, mental, and personality conditions can impair judgment, 
reliability, or trustworthiness. A formal diagnosis of a disorder is not required 
for there to be a concern under this guideline. A duly qualified mental health 
professional (e.g., clinical psychologist or psychi atrist) employed by, or 
acceptable to and approved by the U.S. Government, should be consulted 
when evaluating potentially disqualifying and mitigating information under 
this guideline and an opinion, including prognosis, should be sought. No 
negative inference concerning the standards in this guideline may be raised 
solely on the basis of mental health counseling. 
The guideline at AG ¶ 28 contains five conditions that could raise a security 
concern and may be disqualifying. Three conditions are possibly applicable: 
(a) behavior that casts doubt on  an  individual's judgment,  stability, reliability, 
or trustworthiness, not  covered  under any other guideline  and  that may 
indicate  an  emotional,  mental, or personality  condition, including, but  not 
limited  to, irresponsible,  violent,  self-harm, suicidal, paranoid,  manipulative, 
impulsive, chronic lying, deceitful, exploitative, or bizarre behaviors; 
(c) voluntary or involuntary inpatient hospitalization; and 
(d) failure to  follow a  prescribed  treatment  plan  related  to  a  diagnosed 
psychological/psychiatric condition  that may impair  judgment,  stability, 
reliability, or trustworthiness, including, but not limited  to, failure to  take 
prescribed  medication  or failure to attend prescribed counseling sessions. 
The guideline at AG ¶ 29 contains five conditions that could mitigate security 
concerns: 
(a) the  identified  condition  is readily controllable with  treatment, and  the 
individual  has  demonstrated  ongoing  and  consistent  compliance  with  the 
treatment plan; 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
           
        
          
        
        
         
 
 
 
      
  
 
     
       
 
 
          
   
 
 
(b) the  individual  has  voluntarily entered  a  counseling  or  treatment  program  
for a condition that is amenable to treatment, and the individual is currently  
receiving  counseling  or treatment with  a  favorable prognosis by  a  duly  
qualified mental health professional;  
(d) the  past  psychological/psychiatric condition  was temporary, the  situation  
has been  resolved, and  the  individual no  longer shows indications of  
emotional instability; and  
(e) there is no indication of a current problem.  
There is no denying that Applicant had serious mental -health conditions in the 
past, primarily surrounding his Oxycodone addiction. Up until 2018 those problems were 
sufficient to preclude him from a clearance. However, with the exception of his single slip 
in 2020 during Covid, he has been drug free since 2018 . In addition, Applicant’s 
testimony, a review of his VA progress notes (Government Exhibit 10) ; along with the 
psychologist’s extensive report in Applicant Exhibit A ; and the letter from his current VA 
attending physician (Applicant Exhibit C), all show that his prior concerns, including PTSD 
and depression, are under control. He continues to obtain therapy from the VA. This 
guideline is found for Applicant. 
Paragraph 2 (Guideline J, Criminal Conduct)  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Criminal Conduct is set out in AG 
¶ 30: 
Criminal activity creates doubt about a person's judgment, reliability, and 
trustworthiness. By its very nature, it calls into question a person's ability or 
willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations. 
The guideline at AG ¶ 31 contains five disqualifying conditions that could raise a 
security concern and may be disqualifying. Two conditions apply: 
(a) a  pattern of minor offenses, any one  of  which  on  its own  would be  
unlikely to  affect  a  national security  eligibility decision,  but which in  
combination  cast  doubt on  the  individual’s judgment,  reliability or  
trustworthiness; and  
(b) evidence  (including, but not limited  to, a  credible  allegation, an  
admission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of  
whether the individual was formally charged,  prosecuted, or convicted.  
14 
 
    
     
        
 
        
         
         
  
  
  
Applicant has a history of criminal offenses, primarily involving drugs and DUI, from 
2012 to 2018. The burden passes to him to mitigate these facts. 
The guideline in AG ¶ 32 contains two conditions that could mitigate criminal 
conduct security concerns: 
(a) so  much  time  has elapsed  since  the  criminal behavior  happened, or it 
happened  under such  unusual circumstances, that it  is unlikely to  recur and 
does  not cast doubt on  the  individual's  reliability, trustworthiness,  or good 
judgment; and 
(d) there is evidence  of successful rehabilitation; including, but not limited 
to, the  passage  of time  without recurrence  of criminal activity, restitution, 
compliance  with  the  terms of parole or probation, job  training  or  higher 
education, good  employment  record, or constructive  community 
involvement. 
Appellant has presented compelling evidence that the event in 2018 that nearly 
cost him his life resulted in his finally turning his life around. He is off probation, off drugs, 
has a good job, and is doing well. He has mitigated this guideline. Paragraph 2 is found 
for Applicant. 
Paragraph 3 (Guideline H, Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse)  
The security concern relating to Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse is set 
forth in AG ¶ 24: 
The  illegal use  of controlled  substances,  to  include  the  misuse  of  
prescription  and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances 
that  cause  physical or mental impairment  or are  used  in a  manner  
inconsistent with  their  intended  purpose  can  raise  questions about an  
individual’s reliability and  trustworthiness, both  because  such  behavior may  
lead  to  physical or psychological impairment and  because  it raises  
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules,  
and  regulations. Controlled  substance  means  any “controlled  substance” as  
defined  in  21  U.S.C.  §802.  Substance  misuse  is the  generic term  adopted  
in this guideline to describe any of the  behaviors listed above.  
15 
 
       
 
       
           
      
    
I have examined the disqualifying conditions under AG ¶ 25 and especially 
considered the following: 
(a) any substance  misuse (see above  definition); 
(b) testing positive for an illegal drug; 
(c) illegal possession  of a  controlled  substance, including  cultivation, 
processing, manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession  of 
drug paraphernalia; 
(d) diagnosis by a  duly qualified  medical or mental health  professional  (e.g., 
physician,  clinical psychologist, psychiatrist,  or licensed  clinical  social 
worker) of substance use disorder; and 
(e) failure  to  successfully complete  a  drug  treatment program  prescribed  by 
a duly qualified  medical or mental health professional. 
Applicant had a long-term addiction to Oxycodone. He was diagnosed with 
substance use disorder. He had several failed treatments. All of the stated disqualifying 
conditions have application to this case. The burden shifts to Applicant to mitigate them. 
The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 26 have also been considered: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or happened 
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur or does  not cast  doubt 
on  the  individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  judgment;  and 
(b) the  individual acknowledges his or her drug  involvement and  substance 
misuse,  provides evidence  of actions taken  to  overcome  this problem, and 
has established  a pattern of abstinence, including, but not limited  to: 
(1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts; 
(2) changing  or avoiding  the  environment  where drugs  were  used; 
and 
(3) providing  a  signed  statement of intent  to  abstain from  all  drug 
involvement and  substance  misuse, acknowledging  that any future 
involvement or misuse  is grounds for revocation  of national security 
eligibility. 
16 
 
           
       
       
       
     
         
  
      
  
    
      
    
      
    
        
  
  
   
Applicant had a long-term drug problem that is not in issue. The period of addiction 
lasted from approximately 2014 through 2018, though his use began earlier and actually 
ended in 2020. However, he has four years of sobriety, with only one slip in 2020 during 
Covid. He has gotten an important job at which he is successful and respected. He has 
been open about his history of substance abuse. Under the particular circumstances of 
this case he has mitigated the Drug Involvement and Substance Mis use guideline . 
Paragraph 3 is found for Applicant. 
Paragraph 4  (Guideline E, Personal Conduct)  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Personal Conduct is set out in 
AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to 
cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes. The following will normally result in 
an unfavorable national security eligibility determination, security clearance 
action, or cancellation of further processing for national security eligibility: 
(a) refusal, or failure  without reasonable cause, to  undergo  or 
cooperate  with  security processing, including  but not limited 
to  meeting  with  a  security investigator for  subject  interview, 
completing  security forms or releases, cooperation  with 
medical or psychological evaluation,  or polygraph 
examination, if authorized and required; and 
(b) refusal to  provide full, frank, and truthful answers to lawful 
questions of investigators, security officials, or other official 
representatives in  connection  with  a  personnel security or 
trustworthiness determination. 
The following disqualifying conditions are potentially applicable under AG ¶ 16: 
(a) deliberate  omission, concealment,  or falsification  of relevant facts from 
any personnel  security questionnaire, personal history statement,  or similar 
form  used  to  conduct investigations,  determine  employment qualifications, 
award  benefits or status, determine  national security eligibility or 
trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities; and 
17 
 
       
  
    
  
        
       
       
       
            
 
    
   
(b) deliberately providing  false or misleading  information, or concealing  or 
omitting  information, concerning  relevant facts to  an  employer, investigator, 
security official, competent medical or mental  health  professional involved 
in making  a  recommendation  relevant to  a  national security eligibility 
determination  or other official government representative. 
Applicant falsified relevant facts by omission, commission, or minimization on his 
questionnaire, during an interview with a Government investigator, and in interrogatories 
propounded to him. 
Applicant argues that Mitigating Condition 17(a) applies: 
(a) the  individual made  prompt,  good-faith  efforts to  correct the  omission, 
concealment,  or falsification  before being confronted with the facts; 
His arguments that all of the alleged falsifications were the result of memory 
issues, or innocent mistakes, is not supported by the evidence. He further argues that he 
cured his falsifications during his interview with the Government investigator. In fact, the 
interview showed continued attempts by Applicant to minimize his misconduct. As stated, 
allegations 4.f. and 4.m. are found for Applicant. With those exceptions, Guideline E is 
found against Applicant. 
Paragraph 5  (Guideline F, Financial Considerations)  
The security concerns relating to the guideline for financial considerations are set 
out in AG ¶ 18, which reads in pertinent part:  
Failure to   live  within  one’s means, satisfy debts,  and  meet  financial  
obligations may indicate  poor self-control, lack of judgment,  or  
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise  
questions about an  individual’s reliability, trus tworthiness, and  ability to  
protect  classified  or  sensitive information.  Financial distress can  also be  
caused  or  exacerbated  by, and  thus can  be  a  possible  indicator of,  other  
issues of  personnel security concern  such  as  excessive gambling, mental  
health  conditions, substance  misuse, or alcohol abuse  or dependence. An  
individual who  is financially overextended  is at greater risk of having  to  
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to  generate funds.  
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
 
 
 
 
            
           
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
         
         
         
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AG ¶ 19 describes two conditions that could raise security concerns and may be 
disqualifying in this case: 
(a) inability to satisfy debts;  and  
(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations.  
Applicant was alleged to have seven delinquent debts. AG ¶¶ 19(a) and (c) apply. 
The burden thereby shifts to Applicant to mitigate the adverse inference of his delinquent 
debts. 
The  guideline includes three  conditions in AG  ¶ 20  that could mitigate the security  
concerns arising from  Applicant’s alleged financial difficulties:  
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or occurred  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur and  does not  cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;   
(b) the  conditions  that resulted  in the  financial problem  were  largely  beyond  
the  person’s control (e.g.,  loss of employment,  a  business downturn,   
unexpected  medical emergency, or a  death,  divorce  or separation, clear  
victimization  by predatory lending  practices, or identity  theft), and  the  
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;  and  
(d) the  individual initiated  and  is adhering  to  a  good-faith  effort to  repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.  
With regard to allegations 5.c and 5.g, Applicant submitted documentation showing 
that he had paid off those debts. The remaining debts have not been resolved, nor does 
Applicant have a plan to resolve them. The mitigating conditions do not apply. Based on 
all of the available evidence, Applicant has not mitigated the security concerns of this 
guideline. 
19 
 
        
   
      
   
       
          
     
       
       
    
     
  
       
    
 
 
  
 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole -person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for national security eligibility by considering the totality of the 
applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should 
consider the nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the 
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable 
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to 
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation 
and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct; 
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the 
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence. 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant national security 
eligibility for a security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon 
careful consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
pertinent facts and circumstances surrounding this case. Applicant has not mitigated the 
security concerns of h is personal conduct and financial conduct. He did mitigate the 
concerns under the psychological conditions, criminal conduct, and drug involvement and 
substance misuse guidelines. He is not currently eligible for national security eligibility. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by ¶ E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline I:  FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 1.a through  1.g:  For Applicant 
Paragraph  2, Guideline J:  FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 2.a through 2.f:  For Applicant 
20 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Paragraph  3, Guideline H:  FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 3.a through 3.c:  For Applicant 
Paragraph  4, Guideline  E:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  4.a  through 4.e:  Against Applicant 
Subparagraph  4.f:   For Applicant 
Subparagraphs 4.g  through  4.l:  Against Applicant 
Subparagraph  4.m:   For Applicant 
Paragraph  5, Guideline  F:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  5.a  and 5.b:  Against Applicant 
Subparagraph  5.c:   For Applicant 
Subparagraphs 5.d through 5.f:  Against Applicant 
Subparagraph  5.g:   For Applicant 
Conclusion  
In  light of  all  of the  circumstances  presented  by  the  record in  this case,  it is  not  
clearly consistent   with  the  national  interest to  grant  or  continue  Applicant’s national   
security eligibility for a  security clearance.  Eligibility for access to  classified  information  is  
denied.  
WILFORD H. ROSS 
Administrative Judge 
21 