 
 
 
  
 
                 
       
 
 
 
 
    
   
          
    
   
                                                                                                                                                                    
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
        
    
 
 
 
 
        
    
     
         
         
     
         
      
         
         
            
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 23-02855 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Cynthia Ruckno, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
02/20/2025 
Decision 
Curry, Marc E., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant presented insufficient evidence of what progress, if any, that she has 
made to resolve her delinquent debt. Under these circumstances, she failed to mitigate 
the financial considerations security concerns. Her application for a security clearance is 
denied. 
Statement of the Case 
On January 22 , 202 4, t he Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) 
to Applicant detailing sec urity concerns under Guideline F , financial consideration s, 
explaining why it was unable to find it clearly consistent with the national security to grant 
security clearance eligibility. The DCSA CAS took the action under Executive Order (EO) 
10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as 
amended; Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel 
Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the 
National Adjudicative Guidelines (AG) effective for any adjudication made on or after June 
8, 2017. On February 13, 20 24, Applicant an swered the SOR , and she requested a 
decision based on the record evidence rather than a hearing. On April 2, 202 4, 
1 
 
 
      
    
     
 
           
           
     
 
  
           
          
        
    
 
 
 
        
          
            
       
            
        
          
        
           
          
       
 
      
       
        
  
  
 
 
       
       
            
        
         
       
        
Department Counsel prepared a File of Relevant Material (FORM), setting forth the 
Government’s arguments against Applicant’s security clearance worthiness. The FORM 
contains seven attachments, identified as Item 1 through Item 7. 
Applicant received a copy of the FORM on March 12, 2024. She was given 30 
days to file a response. She did not file a response . The case was assigned to me on 
June 6, 2024. After I received the FORM, I admitted all the attachments. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 31-year-old married woman with one child, age 3. (Item 3 at 5) Since 
graduating from high school, s he has earned an associate degree in 2014, a nd a 
bachelor’s degree, together with a master’s degree, in 2021. (Item 3 at 12) She works 
for a defense contractor as a human resources analyst. (Item 3 at 13) 
Per the  SOR, Applicant has incurred  11  delinquent debts,  totaling  $24,575.  (Item  
1)  She  admits all  of them  except the  debts set  forth  in subparagraphs 1.c and  1.j.  (Item  1  
at 3-4) These  disputed  debts total $5,275.  She  did not  explain the  basis of her denial  or  
provide  any evidence that she  paid or legitimately  disputed  these  debts.  
Applicant attributes her financial problems to an abusive relationship from 2009 to 
2017. (Item 4 at 9) She contends that her finances began stabilizing after she ended the 
relationship and met someone else, whom she later married in 2020. By the fall of 2023, 
she had set up payment plans with the creditors alleged in subparagraphs 1.i and 1.k . 
She was scheduled to begin paying the debt alleged in subparagraph 1.i, totaling $350, 
through monthly $29 payments beginning November 17, 2023, and she was to begin 
paying the debt alleged in subparagraph 1.i, totaling $3 ,593, through $50 monthly 
payments, beginning in November 2023. (Item 4 at 12-17) Despite having through April 
2, 2024, to respond to the FORM, she never provided any evidence supporting whether 
she had been complying with these repayment arrangements. These are the only SOR 
debts Applicant claimed that she had been satisfying. 
In response to interrogatories completed on October 23, 2023, Applicant provided 
a copy of her monthly budget. According to the budget, she has $2,681 of monthly 
discretionary income after paying her monthly expenses and creditors . (Item 4 at 18) In 
February 2020, Applicant vacationed on a luxury cruise. (Item 3 at 32) 
Policies 
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion the Executive 
Branch has in regulating access to information pe rtaining to national security, 
emphasizing that “no one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy 
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security 
clearance, the administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition 
to brief introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guideli nes list 
potentially disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are required to be 
2 
 
 
 
     
    
         
       
      
        
         
       
          
 
 
      
       
  
 
   
      
 
  
 
  
       
 
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
          
    
       
 
  
 
considered  in evaluating  an  applicant’s eligibility for access to  classified  information.  
These  guidelines are not inflexible  rules of  law. Instead, recognizing  the  complexities of  
human  behavior,  these  guidelines  are  applied  in conjunction  with  the  factors listed  in  the  
adjudicative  process. The  administrative  judge’s overa ll  adjudicative  goal is a  fair,  
impartial,  and  commonsense  decision. According  to  AG ¶  2(a), the  entire process is a  
conscientious scrutiny  of a  number of  variables known as the  “whole-person  concept.”  
The  administrative judge  must consider all available,  reliable information  about the  
person, past and  present, favorable and  unfavorable, in making a  decision.  
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 1(d ) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present 
evidence to establish controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, 
the applicant is responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, 
explain, extenuate, or mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department 
Counsel. . ..” The applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable 
security decision. 
Under the whole -person concept, the administrative judge must consider the 
totality of an applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances in light of the nine 
adjudicative process factors in AG ¶ 2(d). They are as follows: 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; 
(2) the circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; 
(3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; 
(4) the individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; 
(5) the extent to which participation is voluntary; 
(6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation and other permanent 
behavioral changes; 
(7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and 
(9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Analysis 
Guideline  F:  Financial Considerations  
The security concern under this Guideline states, “failure to live within one’s 
means, satisfy debts, and meet financial obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack 
of judgment, or unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified 
or sensitive information.” (AG ¶ 18) 
3 
 
 
        
          
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
        
   
  
 
           
     
       
      
      
         
      
            
         
         
    
 
         
      
    
        
 
 
 
Applicant’s history of financial problems triggers the application of AG ¶ 19(a), 
“inability to satisfy debts,” and AG ¶ 19(c), “a history of not meeting financial obligations.” 
. 
The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 are potentially applicable: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or occurred  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur and  does not  cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;  
(b) the  conditions  that resulted  in the  financial problem  were  largely  beyond  
the  person’s control (e.g.,  loss of employment,  a  business downturn,   
unexpected  medical emergency,  a  death, divorce, or separation, clear  
victimization  by predatory lending  practices, or identity  theft), and  the  
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
(c)  the  individual has received  or is receiving  financial counseling  for the  
problem  from  a  legitimate  and  credible  source,  such  as  a  non-profit  credit  
counseling  service, and  there are clear indications that the  problem  is being  
resolved  or is under control;  
(d) the  individual initiated  and  is adhering  to  a  good-faith  effort to  repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debt; and   
(e) the individual has a reasonable basis to dispute the legitimac y of the 
past-due debt which is the cause of the problem and provides documented 
proof to substantiate the basis of actions to resolve the issue. 
Applicant’s contention that her finances were strained by an abusive relationship 
constitutes a circumstance beyond her control , as set forth in 20(b). However, for this 
mitigating condition to apply in its entirety, she must demonstrate that she acted 
responsibly, either through satisfying debts, verifying disputed debts with creditors, 
complying with payment plans, or seeking help from financial counselors. Applicant’s 
submission of draft payment plans for two of the SOR debts (subparagraphs 1.i and 1.k), 
without providing supporting documentation of her compliance and history of payments 
to these creditors is insufficient to meet her burden of mitigation. Under this setting, AG ¶ 
20(b) only applies insofar as the debts were caused by circumstances beyond her control, 
but Applicant failed to satisfy the second prong that she acted responsibly to resolve her 
debts under the circumstances. AG ¶ 20(c) nor AG ¶ 20(d) apply. 
Applicant did not explain the basis of her denial or provide any evidence that she 
paid or legitimately disputed these debts , as alleged in subparagraphs 1.c and 1.j. 
Therefore, AG ¶ 20(e) does not apply. Her finances are neither current nor under control, 
which casts doubt on her reliability, trustworthiness, and good judgment. AG ¶ 20(a) does 
not apply. 
4 
 
 
         
 
   
 
     
        
 
 
 
       
     
 
      
 
                 
 
     
 
            
         
  
 
 
 
 
   
_____________________ 
In sum, I conclude that Applicant has failed to mitigate the financial considerations 
security concerns. 
Whole-Person Concept  
I considered the whole-person concept factors in my analysis of the disqualifying 
and mitigating conditions, discussed above, and they do not warrant a favorable 
conclusion. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  F: AGAINST APPLICANT 
Against Applicant  Subparagraphs  1.a  –  1.k:  
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent wit h the interests of national security to grant or continue Applicant’s 
eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Marc E. Curry 
Administrative Judge 
5 