 
 
 
 
 
                                                              
                             
          
           
             
 
 
     
         
      
    
   
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
       
 
 
 
     
           
        
      
     
    
     
   
 
       
        
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 23-01457 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Carroll J. Connelley, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
01/22/2025 
Decision 
OLMOS, Bryan J., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to mitigate the security concerns under Guideline F (Financial 
Considerations). Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on September 1, 2022. 
On August 21, 2023, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of Reasons 
(SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline F. The DOD issued the 
SOR under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information 
within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 5220.6, Defense 
Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended 
(Directive); and the Security Executive Agent Directive 4 (SEAD 4), National Security 
Adjudicative Guidelines (AG), effective June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR on September 21, 2023 (Answer), and requested a 
hearing before an administrative judge from the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
          
         
         
        
           
  
 
 
            
         
         
  
 
            
              
          
       
           
    
         
 
 
         
          
       
      
       
        
        
      
        
    
 
  
             
   
            
(DOHA). The hearing convened as scheduled on October 17, 2024. Department Counsel 
offered into evidence Government Exhibits (GX) 1 -5. Applicant testified and offered into 
evidence Applicant Exhibits (AX) A -F. All exhibits were admitted without objection. The 
record was left open through November 1, 2024 , for either party to submit additional 
information. Applicant timely submitted AX G-M that were admitted without objection and 
the record closed. DOHA received the hearing transcript (Tr.) on October 24, 2024. 
Findings of Fact  
In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted SOR allegations ¶¶ 1.a through 1.e. 
He denied SOR allegation ¶ 1.f, and provided supporting documents and explanations. 
His admissions are incorporated into my findings of fact. After a thorough review of the 
pleadings and evidence submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact. 
Applicant is 60 years old. He was married from 2004 through 2014 and has three 
adult-aged children from that relationship. He married his second wife in 2021 and she 
currently resides in Trinidad and Tobago, her country of origin. At the time of the hearing, 
Applicant was sponsoring her for residency in the Unite d States. He served in the Army 
from 1982 through 2006, participated in tours in Iraq and Afghanistan and retired as a 
sergeant first class (E -7). He has remained consistently employed since his retirement 
from the Army and has been with his sponsoring employer as a locksmith since July 2022. 
(GX 1, 2; Tr. 20-26) 
Applicant’s financial difficulties began in 2018 when he decided, with a partner, to 
start a real estate business where he would buy, fix and sell properties. He had no 
previous experience in real estate transactions, but believed this presented a strong 
business opportunity. He initially spent $50,000 of his own funds on a real estate course 
to learn how to flip residential properties. Shortly afterwards, he spent another $25,000 of 
his own funds on a real estate course to learn how to flip commercial properties. He then 
paid about $10,000 to $15,000 for a law office to create his business entity and file 
required incorporating documents with government authorities. H e also spent funds 
traveling to various real estate courses and conference s in 2018 and 2019. (Answer; 
GX 1-3; Tr. 32-40, 99-102) 
 Although  he  had  a  partner, Applicant was  the  sole  provider of  funds for the  
business.  He  withdrew  about  $50,000  in  equity from  his home  and  used  personal  funds  
in order to  take  the  courses and  start the  business. Unable to  secure a  business  loan  or  
business credit, he  used  his personal credit cards to  cover additional expenditures.  He  
also remained  employed  in  a  full-time  position  during  this period. (Answer; GX  1-3;  Tr.  35-
42, 99-102)  
While trying to get the business up and running in 2018 and 2019, Applicant lost 
two profitable deals for transactional reasons . He was already experiencing financial 
difficulties when t he COVID -19 pandemic brought the entire real estate industry to a 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
        
 
 
          
              
           
         
          
    
    
 
 
         
       
           
       
      
       
   
 
          
       
        
        
        
 
 
       
          
        
          
 
 
      
        
       
         
      
standstill in 2020. By then, he had stopped paying on most of his credit cards. (Answer; 
GX 1-4; Tr. 38-45) 
In about November 2019, Appellant hired a law group to address his debts. He 
agreed to pay them $17,500 and began sending them $610 a month toward that 
agreement. He claimed that the law group was supposed to create an escrow account 
and attempt to resolve his debts. However, he soon discovered that the law group focused 
on contesting debts and that none of his monthly payments went toward an escrow for 
debt reduction or settlement. He provided a record of payments to the law group, but did 
not provide a copy of the agreement. (GX 1-3; AX H; Tr. 41-53, 103-112) 
While  his hiring  of the  law group  assisted  in  stopping  the  collection  calls, Applicant  
believed  the  law  group  did “basically nothing”  during  the  first  two  to  three  years of their  
arrangement.  (Tr.  47)  However, he  also  claimed  that they gave  him  advice on  how to  
resolve debts.  He  no  longer pays the  law group,  but  they continue  to  represent him  in  
relation  to  debts  that  Applicant  had  at  the  time  he  hired  them.  (GX  1-3; AX  A,  K;  Tr. 41-
53)  
In a March 2023 correspondence, an attorney for the law group stated they were 
hired to represent Applicant “regarding receivables” from specific creditors. (GX 3) These 
creditors were associated with delinquent accounts listed as ¶¶ 1.a -1.e in the SOR as 
well as accounts with two additional creditors (Creditor 1 and Creditor 2) that were not 
listed in the SOR. The attorney further detailed that, as part of their representation, the 
law group was investigating whether any of the creditors violated Applicant’s rights under 
the Consumer Credit Protection Act. (GX 3) 
In May 2022, Creditor 1 entered a consent judgment against Applicant for $7,569 
plus interest and court costs. Shortly afterwards, a payment plan was initiated where 
Applicant would pay the creditor $210 per month. He has continued to make timely 
payments and, as of October 2024, the debt had been reduced to $1,840. He stated his 
intent to continue making payments to resolve this account. (Answer; GX 1; AX L-M; Tr. 
53-61) 
In early 2023, through the law group, Applicant sued a collection agency 
representing Creditor 2 for credit reporting violations. In July 2023, the case settled and 
Creditor 2 cancelled an unspecified amount of Applicant’s debt and paid him $2,500. 
Applicant stated that the law group took all of the funds from the settlement. (AX D; Tr. 
65-68) 
In September 2024 and October 2024 correspondence, the same attorney for the 
law group stated they were hired by Applicant to enforce his rights under Federal law 
regarding a lleged consumer debt violations. The attorney claimed that the law group 
worked on several accounts, but provided no detail as to what actions were taken on 
behalf of Applicant. Instead, t he attorney detailed that Applicant’s remaining delinquent 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
        
   
 
           
         
              
          
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
accounts were all approaching the statute of limitations and that they believed the 
creditors would not pursue the debts. (AX A, K) 
At hearing, Applicant stated it was a mistake to hire the law group but, having paid 
them so much, he felt compelled to take their advice. He claimed he communicated with 
the law group about the SOR, but did not change how he and the law group managed his 
delinquent debts. He further expressed a willingness to pay his debts, but only if the 
creditors contacted him or the law group. (Tr. 93-97, 100-109) 
The evidence regarding the SOR allegations is summarized below: 
SOR ¶¶  1 .a  ($13 ,564)  and  1.b  ($10 ,812)  are  credit card  accounts  that were  used  
as Applicant started  his business and  have  been  charged  off. SOR ¶  1.d ($8,204)  is 
another credit card account that has been  referred  to  a collection  agency. These  debts  
show as unresolved   in Applicant’s credit   reports. He admitted  that he  received  
correspondence  from  these  creditors over time,  but referred  any inquiries to  the  law  
group. He believed  these  debts had all  reached  the  statute  of limitations. He intended  to  
continue to take the law group’s advice and  not  reach  out to creditors unless  he was first  
contacted. These  debts are unresolved.  (GX 3-5; Tr. 45-53, 94-95)  
 SOR ¶  1 .c  ($9,844)  is another credit card account that Applicant used  to  finance  
his real estate  business. Although  Applicant  stated  that the  law group  was working  to  
resolve this debt,  no  action  was taken  until 2024  when  the  creditor pursued  the  debt  
through litigation. A  settlement was reached in March 2024  and a consent judgment was  
entered  for $7,200  with  Applicant scheduled  to  make  payments  of  $300  per month.  He  
testified  that he  set up  an  auto-withdrawal on  the  account and  was continuing  to  make  
payments.  (GX 3-5; AX C, I; Tr. 53-61)  
SOR ¶  1.e  ($7,124)  is a  credit card account that has been  charged  off. Applicant  
stated  that the  creditor had  pursued  litigation  against him, but could not provide  any  
details.  With  the  assistance  of  the  law group, he  last had  contact  with  the  creditor in  2023  
and  offered  $5,000  to  settle the  debt,  but claimed  they never heard  back from  the  creditor.  
The  September 2024  and  October 2024  correspondence  from  the  law group  gave  no  
indication  that  this  debt  was being  negotiated  or settled.  Instead, it  was listed  with  several 
other  debts  as pending  the  statute  of  limitations and  unlikely to  be  pursued  by  the  creditor.  
The debt remains unresolved.  (GX 3-5; Tr. 63-65, 96-98)  
4 
 SOR ¶  1.f ($1,713)  alleged  that Applicant owed  delinquent federal taxes for tax  
year (TY) 2021.  In  his March 2023  response  to  interrogatories, Applicant disclosed  that  
he filed  his TY 2021 tax return  in  March  2023  and  was waiting  on  IRS  processing  before  
submitting  a  payment. However, he  denied  the  SOR allegation  in his  Answer and  stated  
he  paid  the  delinquent  taxes.  A  tax  transcript  confirmed  that  Applicant’s TY  2021  return  
was received  in  March  2023. He received  penalties for the  late  filing  and  late  payment.  
However, he  submitted  a  payment  in  September  2023  and  no  longer owes any taxes  for  
TY 2021.  (GX 3; AX F-G; Tr. 68-71)   
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
          
      
            
          
 
          
           
         
        
              
          
            
 
 
             
    
         
        
         
      
         
            
       
  
  
 
          
           
        
 
 
       
        
      
          
   
 
          
      
         
         
     
       
Additional tax transcripts reflect that Applicant filed his TY 2022 return in 
September 2024 and received penalties for the late filing and late payment. He issued a 
payment in October 2024 and no longer owes any taxes for TY 2022. He filed his TY 2023 
return in May 2024 and received penalties for the late filing and late payment. He issued 
a payment in August 2024 and no longer owes taxes for TY 2023. (AX B, E, J; Tr. 78-80) 
Applicant explained that he started filing his tax returns late while waiting each year 
for his wife’s immigration processing to clear as he had hoped to claim her as a 
dependent. He also withdrew funds from his retirement in 2022 , which complicated his 
filing and increased his tax bill. He uses online software to prepare his return and does 
not use an accountant. However, he also testified that, even when he owed taxes, he did 
not submit payment at the time of the filing. Instead, he waited until the IRS calculated 
penalties and interest. He would then submit a payment once he knew the final bill. (Tr. 
72-90) 
During the hearing, Applicant detailed that he had sufficient income to maintain his 
finances and had previously used funds for other expe nditures besides his delinquent 
debt. In 2022, he purchased a vehicle for about $41,000 and is timely making monthly 
payments of $791 on the loan. In 2022, he also withdrew about $65,000 from his 
retirement fund for the down payment on a home valued at $205,000 in Trinidad and 
Tobago. He then withdr ew additional funds from his retirement in 202 3, and had about 
$16,000 remaining. He estimated he was earning an annual income of about $77,000, 
but had recently received a raise. He also earned about $36,000 ann ually in military 
retirement and additional funds based on a (15%) military disability rating. (GX 2-5; Tr. 
28-30, 75-85) 
Policies  
It is well established that no one has a right to a security clearance. As the 
Supreme Court held in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent standard 
indicates that security determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” 484 
U.S. 518, 531 (1988) 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative g uidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are use d in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables kno wn as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
         
 
 
       
    
          
       
          
  
 
        
       
       
          
     
 
          
       
    
              
      
       
          
   
 
 
 
         
 
 
 
       
       
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical , and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. Likewise, I have not drawn inferences grounded on mere 
speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Analysis  
Guideline F, Financial Considerations  
The security concern relating to the guideline for financial considerations is set out 
in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to  live  within  one's means, satisfy debts, and  meet financial  
obligations may indicate  poor self-control, lack of judgment,  or  
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise  
questions about an  individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and  ability to  
protect  classified  or  sensitive information.  Financial distress can  also be  
caused  or  exacerbated  by, and  thus can  be  a  possible  indicator of,  other  
issues of  personnel security concern  such  as  excessive gambling, mental  
health  conditions, substance  misuse, or alcohol abuse  or dependence. An  
individual who  is financially overextended  is at greater risk of having  to  
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to  generate funds. . . .   
The financial security concern is broader than the possibility that an individual 
might knowingly compromise classified information to raise money. It encompasses 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
    
       
      
 
 
   
    
 
 
 
 
    
    
 
 
      
   
  
 
          
        
  
 
      
  
 
 
 
         
 
 
concerns about an individual’s self -control, judgment, and other qualities essential to 
protecting classified information. An individual who is financially irresponsible may also 
be irresponsible, unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding clas sified 
information. ISCR Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012) 
The adjudicative guideline notes several conditions that could raise security 
concerns under AG ¶ 19. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a)  inability to satisfy debts;  
(c)  a history of not meeting financial obligations; and  
(f) failure to file or fraudulently filing annual Federal, state, or local income 
tax returns or failure to pay annual Federal, state, or local income tax as 
required. 
Applicant’s admissions and the evidence reflect that he incurred multiple 
delinquent accounts over the last several years. He was also late in paying federal taxes 
owed for TY 2021. The above disqualifying conditions are established. 
Once delinquent debt is established, an applicant has the burden o f presenting 
evidence to refute, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the security concerns arising from those 
debts. ISCR 20-03146 at 3 (App. Bd. June 6, 2022). 
Conditions that could mitigate the financial considerations security concerns are 
provided under AG ¶ 20. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or occurred  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur and  does not  cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;  
 
(b) the  conditions  that resulted  in the  financial problem  were  largely  beyond  
the  person's control  (e.g.,  loss of  employment,  a  business downturn,  
unexpected  medical emergency,  a  death,  divorce  or separation, clear  
victimization  by predatory lending  practices, or identity  theft), and  the  
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
(c)  the  individual has received  or is receiving  financial counseling  for the  
problem  from  a  legitimate  and  credible  source,  such  as  a  non-profit  credit  
counseling  service, and  there are clear indications that the  problem  is being  
resolved  or is under control;  
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good -faith effort to repay 
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts; 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          
          
 
 
          
        
     
      
            
       
    
 
      
          
        
           
    
 
       
     
     
         
    
           
             
   
      
 
           
        
       
          
 
 
          
          
       
      
          
(e) the  individual has  a  reasonable basis to  dispute  the  legitimacy  of the  
past-due  debt which is the cause of the  problem and provides documented  
proof to  substantiate  the  basis of the  dispute  or provides evidence  of actions  
to resolve the issue;  and  
(g) the individual has made arrangements with the appropriate tax authority 
to file or pay the amount owed and is in compliance with those 
arrangements. 
Applicant’s financial struggles began when he decided to spend $75,000 on real 
estate courses in 2018 and at least an additional $15,000 in legal fees for incorporation 
and travel expenditures. He used personal funds for this venture because he could not 
secure any business credit. These were predictable expenditures largely within his 
control. While his subsequent struggles to secure a real estate deal may have been 
unforeseen and the COVID-19 pandemic delayed any real estate recovery, the initial 
threshold for consideration of mitigation under AG ¶ 20(b) is only partially applicable. 
Applicant’s actions to address his delinquent debts largely center on his decision 
in 2019 to pay a law group $17,500 to represent him in some capacity regarding those 
debts. He never provided a contract detailing the actual services provided by the law 
group and he has not established that he received any financial counseling from them. 
Mitigation under AG ¶ 20(c) is not applicable. 
Instead, in multiple correspondence, an attorney for the law group stated they were 
hired to enforce Applicant’s rights under Federal law regarding al leged consumer debt 
violations. Yet, in his Answer and at hearing, Applicant admitted and took responsibility 
for all of the consumer debts alleged in the SOR. Specifically with regard to SOR 
allegations ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b and 1.d, the record lacks evidence that Applicant or the law group 
is actively contesting the debts, negotiating a resolution or establishing a payment pla n. 
Even after his admission that it was a mistake hiring the law group , he chose to take no 
action on the debts until the statute of limitations makes the debts legally unenforceable. 
The debts are ongoing. Neither mitigation under AG ¶¶ 20(a) nor 20(e) is applicable 
With regard to SOR allegation ¶ 1.e, Applicant claimed that he and the law group 
attempted to settle the account a year ago, but never heard back from the creditor. 
However, he also believed the debt was pending litigation but could not provide any 
details. Waiting for a creditor to pursue court action on an admitted debt fails to establish 
a good-faith effort to repay overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts. 
The only consumer debt listed within the SOR allegations that Applicant is actively 
resolving is ¶ 1.c. However, a settlement on the debt occurred in 2024 after the creditor 
pursued court action and a consent judgment was entered. Similarly, he is also paying 
Creditor 1, but only after a consent judgment was reached in 2022. While Applicant is 
credited with resolving th ese accounts through paym ents, his efforts on these two 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
         
 
 
      
       
      
       
  
           
       
       
    
 
        
        
  
 
 
 
 
      
       
     
 
        
 
  
 
    
         
        
accounts do not establish mitigation under AG ¶ 20(d ) regarding the overall security 
concerns. 
Additionally, although financially able, Applicant waited until September 2023 to 
pay his TY 2021 taxes. Moreover, he filed his TY2021, TY2022 and TY2023 returns late 
and he paid his TY2022 and TY2023 taxes late. These additional tax issues were not 
alleged in the SOR. However, they establish a history of non -compliance with tax 
obligations that undercut assertions of mitigation, since his tax problems are recent. While 
he is aware of his tax circumstances and appears committed to correct ing the situation, 
particularly to benefit his wife’s immigration status, he has not yet established a track 
record of compliance with his tax obligations. Mitigation under AG ¶ 20(g) is applicable to 
SOR ¶ 1.f, but does not mitigate the overall security concerns. 
While Applicant is credited with resolving some of his delinquent accounts, he has 
allowed others to linger for years without resolution. None of the mitigating conditions are 
fully applicable to the security concerns established for financial considerations. 
Whole-Person Concept  
 Under the  whole-person  concept,  the  administrative judge  must  evaluate  an  
applicant’s eligibility for a  security clearance  by considering  the  totality of the  applicant’s  
conduct and  all  relevant circumstances.  The  administrative  judge  should  consider the  
nine  adjudicative  process factors listed at AG  ¶ 2(d):  
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  
and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct;  
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guideline F in my whole-person analysis. 
Applicant’s financial circumstances have greatly improved since his poor business 
decisions in 2018 and 2019. However, even with the assistance of the law group, he has 
not yet established a track record of debt resolution to mitigate the ongoing financial 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
        
 
 
 
        
      
 
   
 
   
 
    
  
   
 
  
 
 
             
      
 
 
 
 
  
 
_____________________________ 
security concerns. The record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts as to his 
eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  F:  AGAINST APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a-1.b:  Against  Applicant  
Subparagraph  1.c:  For Applicant  
Subparagraphs 1.d-1.e:  Against Applicant  
Subparagraph  1.f:  For Applicant  
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances, it is not clearly consistent with the national 
interest to grant Applicant a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified 
information is denied. 
Bryan J. Olmos 
Administrative Judge 
10 