 
 
 
  
 
               DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
  DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
         
       
           
      
  
 
       
         
       
           
         
        
     
  
 
______________ 
______________ 
In the  matter of:   )  
 )  
    )     ISCR Case No.  23-00605  
   )  
Applicant for Security Clearance   )  
Appearances  
For Government: Jenny Bayer, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Personal Representative 
01/21/2025 
Decision  
Curry, Marc E., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant’s debts were caused by circumstances beyond his control , and he has 
been making responsible, good-faith efforts to resolve them. He has mitigated the financial 
considerations security concern. His explanation for omitting his delinquencies from two 
security clearance applications was not credible. He has not mitigated the personal conduct 
security concerns. Clearance is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On September 18, 2023, Department of Defense Counterintelligence and Security 
Agency Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS) issued a Statement of Reasons 
(SOR) to Applicant, detailing the sec urity concerns under Guideline F , financial 
considerations, and Guideline E, personal conduct, explaining why it was unable to find it 
clearly consistent with the national security to grant security clearance eligibility. The DCSA 
CAS took the action under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified 
Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; D OD Directive 5220.6, 
Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as 
1 
 
 
      
    
  
           
               
          
         
            
         
       
       
 
 
         
           
       
        
             
         
       
      
         
          
         
 
    
 
          
           
       
  
 
 
amended (Directive); and the National Adjudicative Guidelines (AG) effective for any 
adjudication made on or after June 8, 2017. 
On September 29, 2023, Applicant answered the SOR, admitting the allegations and 
requesting a hearing, whereupon the case was assigned to me on May 3, 2024. On June 5, 
2024, the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals issued a notice of video teleconference 
hearing, scheduling the hearing on July 18, 2024. The hearing was held as scheduled. At 
the hearing, I received seven Government exhibits (GE 1 – GE 7), 15 exhibits from 
Applicant (Applicant’s exhibit (AE) A through AE O), and the testimony of Applicant and 
eight character witnesses. Also, I took administrative notice of the discovery letter mailed 
from Department Counsel to Applicant, dated November 21, 2023, marking it as Court 
Exhibit (CE) I. 
The parties did not complete the presentation of their respective cases by the close 
of business, prompting me to continue the case to July 30, 2024 , per agreement of the 
parties. The rescheduled hearing was completed that day. Later the same day, Applicant 
emailed a supplemental closing argument. On July 31, 2024, I emailed Department 
Counsel, asking her if she had any objections , and whether she desired to submit a 
response. On August 1, 2024, Department Counsel emailed me, expressing no objection 
to Applicant’s submission, and filing a response. On August 2, 2024, Applicant submitted 
another supplemental closing argument. Department Counsel did not object to its 
submission, whereupon, I identified it, together with both parties’ post-hearing submissions, 
as CE II and closed the record. DOHA received a transcript of the first part of the hearing 
(Tr. I) on July 29, 2024, and the transcript of the second part of the hearing (Tr. II) on 
August 12, 2024. 
Findings of Fact  
 Applicant has spent his civilian career consulting  for various defense contractors.  
He is highly respected  in his field  of expertise.  Per a  coworker  who  worked  with  him  daily  
between  2020  and  2022, Applicant is a  man  of  “impeccable character”   who  always  
completed  his tasks with  due  diligence. (Tr.  I at  18) A  colleague  who  worked  with  him  in  
2016  described  Applicant  as a  straight shooter, “who  will  tell  you  how it is”,  and  as  a  person  
with  a  wealth of knowledge  and  subject-matter expertise  in his field. (Tr.  I at  26) Another  
coworker described  him  as  a  stellar performer  who  is “honest  as the  day is long.” (Tr. I at  
34)  Applicant  has held  a  security clearance  for 40  years. (Tr.  I  at  125)  He has been  
unemployed  since  April  2023, pending  the  outcome  of the  security  clearance  eligibility  
hearing. (Tr. 14)  
 
     
    
Applicant is a 69-year-old married man with two adult children. He graduated from a 
military academy in 1979 and served on active duty in the Army through 1990. (GE 1 at 5) 
He was honorably discharged. (GE 1 at 16) That year, he also earned a master’s degree. 
(GE 1 at 1 at 10) 
Over the years, Applicant incurred approximately $1 07,000 in delinquent debt. 
(Answer at 1-2) His finances were stable until approximately 2006, when his terminally ill 
2 
 
 
       
   
       
       
      
       
 
 
 
 
                
         
    
 
        
             
          
              
            
       
 
        
              
          
           
        
          
       
 
 
         
      
 
 
      
      
     
        
   
 
          
       
              
father-in-law moved into his home, and Applicant’s wife, a nurse, quit her job to care for 
him. (AE O). Applicant’s father-in-law subsequently passed away in August 2007. (Ex O) 
Less than a year later , Applicant’s mother moved in after a doctor diagnosed her with 
dementia, prompting Applicant’s wife to remain home to care for her until his mother’s 
death in January 2012. (AE O) Absent his wife’s income, Applicant began to continually 
withdraw money from his individual retirement account (IRA) to make ends meet. (Tr. II at 
7) 
When  Applicant’s mother passed  away  in  2012,  Applicant  and  his  siblings  disagreed  
about Applicant’s role  as  the  holder of a  power of attorney for  her estate.  (Tr. 112; GE  3  at  
7) Subsequently, their  disagreements led  to  litigation, which  Applicant ultimately lost.  In  
sum, the  litigation cost him  approximately  $100,000. (Tr.  I at  114)   
In May 2014, Applicant lost his job after a contract expired. (Tr. II at 9; AE O) He 
remained unemployed through June 2015. (GE 1 at 13) By the time he regained 
employment in 2015, he had depleted his IRA. (Tr. II at 7) 
When Applicant was unemployed, he began researching a fast -food carryout 
franchise. (Tr. II at 10) Subsequently, he financed the purchase of a restaurant franchise, 
using a $200,000 home equity line of credit. (AE B) The business was not successful, 
prompting Applicant to attempt to sell it in 2019. Unable to sell the the business, Applicant 
met with a business attorney who recommended that he close it. (Tr. I at 119; AE O at 2). 
Following the attorney’s recommendation, Applicant closed it later that year. (Tr. I at 121) 
Deeply in debt, Applicant sold his single-family home and moved into a townhouse 
he owned and had previously used as a rental property. (AE N; AE O at 2) It was less than 
half the size of his single -family home. He then consulted a bankruptcy attorney who 
recommended that he not pay his delinquent debts, in preparation for a bankruptcy filing. 
(AE O at 2; Tr. I at 123) Applicant opted not to file for bankruptcy protection, and instead, 
he decided he would work to satisfy his debts. Applicant then read a book by a prominent 
personal finance expert and began using his method to begin resolving the debt. (Tr. I at 
86) 
Subparagraph 1.a, an account totaling $752 , is from a credit card processing 
company related to Applicant’s failed business. (Tr. I at 84) By July 2024, he had satisfied 
this debt in full. (AE A) 
Subparagraph 1.b, totaling $7,436, is a credit card account that Applicant used for 
business expenses. (Tr. II at 22). Applicant has been making $5 monthly payments since 
2020. (Tr. II at 23) He recognizes that this payment is nominal; however , he has been 
unemployed since losing his security clearance in April 2023, receiving a fraction of what 
he earned before his layoff. (Tr. I at 108, 123) 
Subparagraph 1.c is a credit card account, totaling $13,859. It became delinquent in 
March 2022. (Tr. II at 25) In December 2023, the collection agent contacted Applicant and 
proposed a balance reduction to $6,874. (AE H). Under the terms of the proposal, Applicant 
3 
 
 
          
        
            
 
             
           
           
           
    
 
          
 
 
            
            
           
    
 
        
            
             
               
        
  
 
      
      
       
         
    
 
 
was to begin paying monthly $764 payments. (AE H) Applicant informed the collection 
agent that he could not begin the payment plan because he was unemployed. In response, 
the creditor informed him to contact them once he was again gainfully employed. (Tr. 27) 
The debt alleged in subparagraph 1.d, totaling $19,607, is a personal credit card that 
Applicant opened in 2008. (Tr. 27) Applicant’s last payment was in December 2020. (Tr. 28) 
Recently, he contacted the creditor and informed them he was unemployed and did not 
have sufficient income to beginning satisfying the debt. (Tr. 28) The creditor asked him to 
contact him when had sufficient funds to begin payments. (Tr. 28) 
The debt alleged in subparagraph 1.e, totaling $3,996, is a delinquent credit card 
account. (Tr. 29) Applicant settled this debt in March 2024. (GE 7 at 3) 
The debt alleged in subparagraph 1.f, totaling $61,495, is a delinquent business loan 
related to the failed fast-food franchise. (Tr. II at 31) It remains outstanding. (Tr. II at 31) In 
the past two years, Applicant satisfied a $2,869 federal income tax delinquency for tax year 
2020, and he satisfied a $327 credit card bill. (AE G at 4; AE E)  
Applicant receives $73,301 annually in unemployment compensation. (AE L at 2) In 
an effort to generate more disposable income, Applicant obtained a loan modification of the 
mortgage loan on his townhome in July 2024. (AE J) He is using a debt reduction strategy 
that he read in a book by a financial planning advisor, in which he is focusing on satisfying 
the smaller debts and on “keeping [the] personal ones current [while] trying to pay down all 
the business ones.” (Tr. I at 187) 
Applicant failed to disclose his delinquent finances on security clearance 
applications, completed in 2021 and 2022, respectively. He attributed the omissions to 
“failing to give [them] the attention to detail that [they] deserved,” and instead, to clicking 
“no, no, no, no, no, all the way down” the column of financial question inquiries on the 
applications. (Tr. I at 132; Tr. II at 34) 
Policies  
The  U.S. Supreme  Court has recognized  the  substantial discretion  the  Executive  
Branch  has in  regulating  access to  information  pertaining  to  national security,  emphasizing  
that “no  one  has a  ‘right’ to  a  security clearance.” Department  of the  Navy v. Egan, 484  
U.S. 518, 528 (1988). When evaluating an  applicant’s suitability for a security clearance,  
the  administrative  judge  must  consider the  adjudicative  guidelines. In  addition  to  brief  
introductory explanations for  each  guideline,  the  adjudicative  guidelines list  potentially  
disqualifying  conditions and  mitigating  conditions, which  are required  to  be  considered  in  
evaluating  an  applicant’s eligibility  for  access  to  classified  information.  These  guidelines  are  
not  inflexible  rules  of law. Instead, recognizing  the  complexities  of  human  behavior, these  
guidelines are applied  in  conjunction  with  the  factors listed  in the  adjudicative  process.  The  
administrative judge’s overa ll  adjudicative  goal is a  fair, impartial,  and  commonsense  
decision. According  to  AG ¶  2(a), the  entire process is a  conscientious  scrutiny  of  a  number  
of variables known  as the  “whole-person  concept.” The  administrative  judge  must  consider  
4 
 
 
          
 
 
     
    
         
       
          
           
         
             
     
 
          
           
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable, and 
unfavorable, in deciding. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 1(d ) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence 
to establish controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant 
is responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel. . ..” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
Under the whole-person concept, the administrative judge must consider the totality 
of an applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances in light of the nine adjudicative 
process factors in AG ¶ 2(d). They are as follows: 
(1) the  nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct;  
(2) the  circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable 
participation;  
(3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;   
(4) the individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct;  
(5) the  extent to which participation is voluntary;  
(6) the  presence  o r absence  of rehabilitation  and  other  permanent  behavioral  
changes;  
(7) the  motivation for the conduct;   
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and   
(9) the likelihood  of continuation  or recurrence.  
Analysis  
Guideline F:  Financial Considerations  
Under this concern, “failure to  live  within one’s means, satisfy debts,  and  meet  
financial obligations  may indicate  poor self-control, lack of judgment,  or unwillingness  to  
abide  by  rules and   regulations, all  of  which  can  raise  questions  about an  individual’s 
reliability, trustworthiness, and  ability to  protect classified  or sensitive  information.” (AG ¶  
18) Applicant’s history of financial problems triggers  the  application  of  AG ¶  19(a),  “inability  
to satisfy debts,”  and  AG ¶ 19(c), “a history of not meeting financial obligations.”    
The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 are potentially applicable: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or  occurred  under  
such  circumstances that it is unlikely to  recur and  does not cast doubt on  the  
individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
           
        
         
 
 
      
             
       
       
         
         
       
           
    
   
 
 
 
 
       
          
 
(b) the  conditions  that resulted  in the  financial problem  were  largely  beyond  
the  person’s control (e.g.,  loss of employment,  a  business downturn,   
unexpected  medical emergency,  a  death, divorce, or separation, clear  
victimization  by predatory lending  practices, or identity  theft), and  the  
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
(c)  the  individual has received  or is receiving  financial counseling  for the  
problem  from  a  legitimate  and  credible  source,  such  as  a  non-profit  credit  
counseling  service, and  there are clear indications that the  problem  is being 
resolved  or is under control; and  
(d) the  individual initiated  and  is adhering  to  a  good-faith  effort to  repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.  
Applicant’s financial  problems are ongoing. Consequently, AG   ¶  20(a) does  not  
apply.
Applicant’s financial problems did not occu r because of foolish or profligate 
spending. Instead, they occurred gradually over a ten-year period, beginning when his wife, 
a professional nurse, stopped working to care for two of their elderly, ill parents over a six-
year period, and they continued through a lengthy unemployment and a failed business 
venture. 
Throughout Applicant’s financial problems, he has dealt with them proactively, 
selling his home and moving into a smaller residence to generate income, consulting with a 
business attorney when his business was failing, and developing and implementing a debt 
resolution strategy learned from reading a book by a prominent financial advisor. 
Consistent with the plan of paying smaller debts first, then focusing on the larger ones, 
Applicant has satisfied the debts alleged in subparagraphs 1.a and 1.e, and is making 
payments toward the next smallest SOR debt, alleged in subparagraph 1.b. In addition, he 
has satisfied approximately $3 ,100 of debts that were not alleged in the SOR. Under these 
circumstances, I conclude that AG ¶ 20(b), 20(c), and 20(d) apply. In sum, Applicant has 
mitigated the financial considerations security concern. 
Personal Conduct  
Under this guideline, “conduct involving  questionable judgment,  lack of candor,   
dishonesty,  or unwillingness to  comply with  rules  and  regulations  can  raise  questions  about  
an  individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and  ability to  protect classified  or sensitive   
information.” (AG ¶  15) Moreover, “of special interest  is any failure to  cooperate  or provide  
truthful and  candid answers during  national security investigative  or adjudicative  
processes.” (Id.)  
Applicant’s failure to disclose financial information on two security clearance 
applications raises the issue of whether the following disqualifying condition under AG ¶ 16 
applies: 
6 
 
 
 
 
        
        
           
 
 
 
        
             
    
  
 
 
       
    
 
    
 
    
 
     
 
      
   
 
        
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
_____________________ 
(a) deliberate  omission, concealment,  or falsification  of relevant facts from  
any personnel  security questionnaire, personal history statement,  or similar  
form  used  to  conduct investigations,  determine  employment qualifications,  
award  benefits or status, determine  national security eligibility or 
trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities.  
Given the length of time Applicant has held a security clearance, it is not credible 
that he could unintentionally neglect to include his financial delinquencies on, not one, but 
two security clearance applications completed within a 15-month period. I conclude that AG 
¶ 16(a) applies without mitigation. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Since graduating from a military academy, Applicant has enjoyed an illustrious 
career, both in the Army and in the civilian contracting field. However, his falsification of his 
security clearance applications raises serious security concerns that he was unable to 
mitigate. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline F: FOR APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 1.a  –  1.f:  For Applicant 
Paragraph  2, Guideline E: AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraph  2.a  –  2.b: Against  Applicant  
Conclusion  
Considering the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not clearly 
consistent with the interests of national security to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Marc E. Curry 
Administrative Judge 
7 