                           
                                   
                  DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS  
      
         
           
             
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
      
   
  
 
         
 
       
       
         
               
 
         
           
           
      
         
         
  
______________ 
______________ 
In  the  matter of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR  Case No.  23-02580  
 )  
Applicant for Security Clearance  )  
 
Appearances  
For Government: Andrew H. Henderson, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
03/28/2025 
Decision  
Dorsey, Benjamin R., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not mitigate the financial considerations security concerns . The 
personal conduct security concerns were not established. Eligibility for access t o 
classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
On December 11, 2023, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline F (financial 
considerations) and Guideline E (personal conduct) . He responded to the SOR with an 
undated answer, and requested a decision based on the written record in lieu of a hearing. 
The Government submitted its written case on February 6, 2024, and again on 
April 6, 2024. A complete copy of the file of relevant material (FORM) was provided to 
Applicant, who was advised that he had 30 days from his date of receipt to file objections 
and submit material to refute, extenuate, or mitigate the security concerns. Applicant 
received the FORM on April 17, 2024, and he did not respond to it. The case was 
assigned to me on February 20, 2025. The Government exhibits included in the FORM, 
marked as Items 1 through 11, are admitted in evidence without objection. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
          
         
            
      
    
 
 
 
 
 
            
      
           
       
  
    
          
   
       
      
 
 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 31-year-old employee of a government contractor for whom he has 
worked since July 2021. When he completed and certified the October 7, 2022 security 
clearance application (2022 SCA) upon which this adjudication is based, he claimed he 
was a lso a full -time college student from 2011 to the present. However, he earned a 
bachelor’s degree in December 2019, and does not appear to have been a student after 
he earned that degree. He has never married and has no children. (Items 2-5) 
In  the  SOR,  the  Government alleged  Applicant’s 12  delinquent  debts  totaling  
approximately $154,000  (SOR ¶¶  1.a  through  1.l). A  substantial portion  of these  
delinquencies  consist  of student loans in  the  approximate  amount  of $145,000  (SOR ¶¶  
1.a  through  1.g). The  other delinquent debts  are as follows: a  residential lease  (SOR ¶  
1.h); credit  cards  (SOR  ¶¶  1.i  through  1.k); and  an  auto  loan  (SOR ¶  1.l). He  admitted  the  
SOR allegations.  His admissions are adopted  as  findings  of  fact.  The  SOR allegations  
are established  through  his admissions  and  the  Government’s credit reports. (Items  2-11)   
The  student loans  listed  in SOR ¶¶  1.a  through  1.l in the  approximate  amount of  
$145,000  have  not  been  resolved.  I  take  administrative  notice  that  all  federal  student  
loans were placed  in  a  deferment status  because  of the  COVID-19  pandemic (Deferment)  
as of late  March 2020. The  Deferment ended  in September 2023.   The  Government’s  
February 2024  credit report  reflects  a  last payment  date  of July 2021  on  these  loans.  
Therefore, Applicant  did  not  begin  repayment  on  these  loans  when  the  Deferment  ended.  
In  his response  to  the  statement of reasons, Applicant claimed  that he  had  contacted  the  
student loan  creditor on  an  undisclosed  date  to  discuss  repayment  options. He  claimed  
that he  plans to  repay the  lower student  loan  debts listed  in SOR ¶¶  1.f  and  1.g  in  
installments of about $1,035  per month  over 12  months to  satisfy those  loans. He then  
plans to  repay  the  remaining  delinquent  student  loan  debts  listed  in  SOR ¶¶  1.a  through  
1.e  in  monthly installments of about $2,200  for 60  months. He  did not allege  that  he  has  
begun  making  any of  these  payments.  He  did  not  provide  any  documents  regarding  his  
efforts to   resolve  the  student loan  debts.  He  did not provide  any documents  to  show that  
he can afford to  make these  payments. (Items 1, 4-11)  
The residential lease delinquency listed in SOR ¶ 1.h in the amount of about 
$4,593 has not been resolved. This debt became delinquent in about 2018 when 
Applicant and his roommates were evicted from an apartment for failing to timely pay rent. 
During his May 2023 security interview (2023 SI), he initially told the DOD investigator 
that he believed that he and his roommates paid off this debt. However, during the same 
interview, he conceded that perhaps they had not paid it. In his response to the SOR, he 
claimed that he made a payment arrangement with the relevant leasing office on an 
unspecified date. He claimed that he would pay $583 in February 2024, and $4,000 total 
split equally between two March 2024 payments. He provided no documents to 
corroborate his resolution efforts, his payments, or the status of the debt. (Items 1, 4 -9, 
11) 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
        
    
     
         
         
   
 
        
     
             
   
 
       
     
             
   
 
           
        
          
         
         
            
  
   
     
      
           
     
          
          
              
          
         
  
 
          
           
         
           
              
         
         
          
            
         
The delinquent credit card listed in SOR ¶ 1.i in the approximate amount of $2,442 
is being resolved. Applicant became delinquent on this account in about October 2018. 
On an unspecified date, Applicant made a payment arrangement with the creditor to pay 
the balance in full on February 23, 2024. He provided a screen shot to reflect this 
proposed payment, but he did not provide any documentation to show that he made the 
required payment. (Items 1, 4-11) 
The delinquent credit card listed in SOR ¶ 1.j in the approximate amount of $1,160 
has been resolved. Applicant became delinquent on this account in about November 
2017. He paid this account in full on January 19, 2024, and provided a screenshot from 
the creditor’s website reflecting the payment and the paid-in-full status. (Items 1, 4-11) 
The delinquent credit card listed in SOR ¶ 1.k in the approximate amount of $862 
has been resolved. Applicant became delinquent on this account in about November 
2017. He paid this account in full on January 19, 2024, and provided a screenshot from 
the creditor’s website reflecting the payment and the paid-in-full status. (Items 1, 4-11) 
The delinquent auto loan listed in SOR ¶ 1.l, in the approximate amount of $995 
with a total loan balance of $18,258 has been resolved. Applicant opened this account in 
about 2020 and fell behind on payments sometime during the pandemic. His car 
payments were about $497 per month. He was generally no more than three payments 
behind on the account, and the automobile securing the account was not repossessed. 
He claimed he is current on the account, and provided a screen shot from the creditor’s 
website to corroborate this status. (Items 1, 4, 7-11) 
Applicant’s financial delinquencies were caused by immaturity, a lack of financial 
acumen, and some periods of underemployment and unemployment. He was 
unemployed from April 2021 until June 2021 as a result of being laid off by another 
government contract or. However, he has been gainfully employed with this current 
employer since June 2021. During the 2023 SI, he told the DOD investigator that he was 
paid $83,000 annually and had a monthly surplus of about $1,664. He claimed he had 
about $6,000 to $8,000 i n a savings account and about $1,500 to $2,000 in a checking 
account. He claimed that he has about $5,000 in a retirement account. He has not 
provided any more recent budget information or evidence to show his current financial 
status. He provided no evidence that he has undergone financial counseling. (Items 3-5) 
Despite being required to divulge information regarding his delinquent financial 
accounts in the 2022 SCA, Applicant failed to do so. He volunteered many of these 
delinquencies before being confronted by the investigator during the 2023 SI. He claimed 
that he did not divulge these delinquent debts because he did not understand the question 
and he made a mistake. In his response to the SOR, he acknowledged that he made a 
mistake and did not accurately report the required information. He again claimed it was 
an inadvertent mistake, and that he was not trying to deceive or withhold information 
deliberately. He wrote that he was not intending to falsify material facts. He listed 
delinquent debts on a security clearance application that he completed and certifie d on 
January 10, 2020 (2020 SCA). Some of the delinquent debts he listed in the 2020 SCA 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
           
         
      
  
 
 
    
      
       
      
 
 
     
        
      
         
   
 
          
     
         
           
     
       
         
 
 
      
    
    
 
        
       
       
      
         
 
           
        
    
              
      
       
           
  
were debts that were still delinquent at the time he completed the 2022 SCA. He listed 
other derogatory information in the 2022 SCA, such as quitting a job before being fired 
for poor performance and being let go by another employer for not meeting an empl oyer 
mandated quota. (Items 1-5) 
Policies  
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines (AG ), which became 
effective within DOD on June 8, 2017. 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number o f variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, re liable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          
           
      
  
 
 
 
       
 
       
   
            
    
      
          
      
      
      
  
 
    
    
  
 
 
    
      
 
 
      
    
 
 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline F, Financial Considerations  
The security concern for financial considerations is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one ’s means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self-control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual ’s reliability, trustworthiness , and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a)  inability to satisfy debts; and  
(c) a history of not  meeting financial obligations.  
Applicant had 12 delinquent debts totaling about $154,000. Several of the SOR 
accounts have been delinquent for years. The above disqualifying conditions are 
established. 
Conditions that could mitigate the financial considerations security concerns are 
provided under AG ¶ 20. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or occurred  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur and  does not  cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;   
(b) the  conditions  that resulted  in the  financial problem  were  largely  beyond  
the  person’s control (e.g.,  loss of employment,  a  business downturn,   
unexpected  medical emergency,  a  death,  divorce  or separation, clear  
victimization  by predatory lending  practices, or identity  theft), and  the  
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;  and    
5 
(d) the  ind ividual initiated  and  is adhering  to  a  good-faith  effort to  repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.   
 
 
 
 
 
       
           
           
     
      
     
         
        
       
         
      
  
 
       
      
               
     
       
       
          
            
         
           
    
      
         
  
 
  
Applicant’s financial delinquencies are recent and ongoing. He has not provided 
sufficient evidence that he is resolving the vast majority of his SOR debts. While he 
claimed that he has a plan in place to resolve his delinquent student loans, the evidence 
that he has executed that plan is equivocal, because it is aspirational. It is reasonable to 
expect Applicant to present documentation about the resolution of specific debts, but he 
has not provided documentation regarding any of his student loans (SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 
1.g), the residential lease (SOR ¶ 1.h), or one of his credit cards (SOR ¶ 1.i). See, e.g., 
ISCR Case No. 15 -03363 at 2 (App. Bd. Oct. 16, 2016). While he has provided 
documentary evidence concerning the resolution of three of his financial delinquencies 
(SOR ¶¶ 1.j, 1.k, and 1.l), these debts were by far the smallest listed in the SOR, totaling 
only about $3,000 of the $154,000 total. He has not established a track record of financial 
responsibility. AG ¶ 20(a) does not apply. 
Applicant’s delinquencies were caused by immaturity and unemployment. To the 
extent that his delinquencies were caused by unemployment they can be seen as being 
beyond his control. For AG ¶ 20(b) to apply, he must also provide evidence that he acted 
responsibly under the circumstances. For AG ¶ 20(d) to apply, he must show that he 
made good-faith efforts to resolve his debts. The timing of his resolution efforts detracts 
from his ability to meet his burden of persuasion in mitigation under these two mitiga ting 
conditions. Despite being gainfully employed since June 2021 and telling the investigator 
in May 2023 that he had a fair amount in savings, he provided little to no evidence to 
show that he attempted to resolve these delinquencies until after the SOR was issued. 
An applicant who acts to mitigate security concerns only after his personal concerns are 
threatened, such as by the potential loss of his or her security clearance, may not be 
motivated to follow rules and regulations when his personal interests are not affected. For 
these reasons, I find he has not acted responsibly or in good faith with respect to his 
delinquencies. AG ¶¶ 20(b) and 20(d) do not apply. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
   
  
 
      
          
            
       
      
            
      
    
    
        
          
     
 
 
 
 
Guideline E, Personal Conduct   
The security concern for personal conduct is set out in AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving  questionable judgment, lack of candor,  dishonesty,  or  
unwillingness to  comply with  rules and  regulations can  raise  questions  
about an  individual’s reliability, trustworthiness and   ability to   protect  
classified  or sensitive  information.  Of  special interest is any  failure to  
cooperate  or provide  truthful and  candid  answers during  the  national  
security investigative or adjudicative  processes.  
AG ¶ 16 describes conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying. The following disqualifying condition is potentially applicable: 
(a) deliberate  omission, concealment,  or falsification  of relevant facts from  
any personnel  security questionnaire, personal history statement,  or similar  
form  used  to  conduct investigations,  determine  employment qualifications,  
award  benefits or status,  determine  security clearance  eligibility or 
trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities.   
There is some evidence that Applicant’s failure to list his financial delinquencies in 
the 2022 SCA was deliberate. He claimed that he did not understand the question about 
his delinquent debts, yet he seemed to understand it sufficiently when he listed s ome of 
the same financial delinquencies in the 2020 SCA. However, there is also evidence that 
he did not deliberately omit this information. He volunteered these delinquencies to the 
investigator during the 2023 SI, and he listed other derogatory informati on in the 2022 
SCA related to his employment record. He also made at least one seemingly neutral 
mistake regarding his college education that tends to show that he was not being careful 
while completing the 2022 SCA. On the whole, I find the conflicting evidence that augurs 
both for and against a finding that his omissions were deliberate effectively cancels one 
another out. Therefore, I find that there is insufficient evidence that his omission was 
deliberate. AG ¶ 16 does not apply and Guideline E is not established. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the  whole-person  concept,  the  administrative judge  must  evaluate  an  
applicant’s eligibility for a  security clearance  by considering  the  totality of the  applicant’s  
conduct and  all  relevant circumstances.  The  administrative  judge  should  consider the  
nine  adjudicative  process factors listed at AG  ¶ 2(d):  
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  
and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct;  
 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
       
         
       
        
 
 
      
     
    
 
 
 
        
    
 
  
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. I considered the potentially 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances 
surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under Guidelines F and E in my 
whole-person analysis. 
Overall, the r ecord evidence leaves me with questions and doubts about 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. I conclude Applicant did not 
mitigate the financial considerations security concern . The personal conduct security 
concern was not established. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline F:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.l:  Against Applicant 
Paragraph  2, Guideline E:  FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  2.a:  For Applicant 
Conclusion  
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for 
a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Benjamin R. Dorsey 
Administrative Judge 
8 