 
 
                             
           
             
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
       
 
 
 
     
       
       
     
     
 
  
 
            
      
           
   
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS  
  
     
 
 
______________ 
______________ 
In  the  matter of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR  Case No.  23-01037  
 )  
Applicant for Security Clearance  )  
 
Appearances  
For Government: Nicholas Temple, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: John V. Berry, Esq. 
03/31/2025 
Decision  
LAFAYE, Gatha, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant provided sufficient evidence to mitigate security concerns raised under 
Guidelines E (personal conduct) and J (criminal conduct) . Eligibility for access to 
classified information is granted. 
Statement  of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on October 26, 2022. 
On May 16, 2023 , the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of Reasons 
(SOR) alleging security concerns under Guideline s E and J. The DOD acted under 
Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry 
(February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel 
Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the 
adjudicative guidelines (AG) effective within the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR on June 2, 2023, and requested a hearing before an 
administrative judge. On August 28, 2024, the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals 
(DOHA) issued a notice scheduling the hearing for September 24, 2024. The hearing was 
convened as scheduled. 
1 
 
 
     
         
         
         
  
 
 
        
        
 
 
        
           
       
         
        
 
      
       
    
         
           
  
 
       
          
         
          
        
         
     
 
       
         
        
         
    
 
     
       
          
          
    
 
During the hearing, Department Counsel offered Government Exhibits (GE) 1 and 
GE 2, which were admitted in evidence without objection. Applicant offered Applicant 
Exhibits (AE) A through AE L, which were also admitted in evidence without objection. 
Applicant and his two character witnesses testified. DOHA received the hearing transcript 
(Tr.) on October 3, 2024. 
Findings of Fact  
In his Answer, Applicant admitted all allegations in the SOR . His admissions are 
incorporated in my findings of fact. After careful review of the evidence, I make the 
following additional findings of fact. 
Applicant is 57 years old. He received his high school diploma in 1985, and enlisted 
in the Navy in 1989 as a Seaman Recruit. In 2002, he completed his bachelor’s degree 
and was commissioned as a Naval Officer the same year . After 24 years of honorable 
service, in February 2014, Applicant retired from the Navy at the rank of Lieutenant (O3E). 
He married in 1994 and he has two children, ages 25 and 27. (GE 1; Tr. 38-46; AE B, C) 
Applicant has worked as a senior systems engineer for a defense contractor since 
December 2013. He has held an active secret security clearance since 1991, granted 
during his first enlistment in the Navy. He completed his most recent SCA in October 2022 
where he disclosed being detained for shoplifting in about June 2022, and later being 
arrested for the same and related offenses in September 2022, after he failed to appear 
for his arraignment. (GE 1; Tr. at 9) 
Under Guideline E, the SOR alleged in ¶ 1.a, that Applicant shoplifted at a retail 
store (MERC) on multiple occasions in June and July 2022 . This allegation was cross-
alleged under Guideline J , in SOR ¶ 2.a , and finally, SOR ¶ 2.b alleged Applicant pled 
guilty in October 202 2 to two counts of shoplifting and was sentenced to 12 months’ 
imprisonment (suspended 11 months , 18 days); 12 months’ probation; and ordered to 
pay restitution for about $250. Applicant admitted all allegations and provided evidence 
in mitigation. (SOR Answer; AE A, I, J, K) 
Applicant was a frequent shopper at MERC, and on average, he purchased goods 
totaling several hundred dollars each month. Like many modern stores, MERC had 
adapted the practice of encouraging customers to use the self-checkout registers. There 
were fewer clerks available in check-out lines to help customers complete purchases, and 
sometimes there were no clerks available at all to help. (Tr. 58-60) 
In July 2022, Applicant arrived in the early morning hours at MERC. He used a 
self-checkout scanner and register to purchase his goods because no clerks were 
available to assist him with completing his purchases. His cart was filled with numerous 
goods needed for his household, and he said he believed he properly scanned and paid 
for all of them. (GE 1 at 33-40; GE 2; Tr. 47-61) 
2 
 
 
       
         
         
         
        
         
 
           
        
                
      
           
           
       
 
      
         
        
    
       
 
          
        
         
             
     
 
            
      
       
    
       
      
       
              
         
       
       
 
          
         
            
            
      
            
          
After completing the transaction, Applicant headed towards the exit, and was 
stopped by the MERC loss prevention officer (LPO), who invited him to a separate room 
to audit his purchases. After the audit, the LPO determined Applicant had not paid for 
about four items, which totaled about $28. The LPO informed Applicant that the MERC 
policy required him to summon the Sheriff’s department (Sheriff) for stolen goods totaling 
$25 or more. (GE 1 at 33-40, GE 2; Tr. 47-56; AE A) 
The Sheriff arrived and issued Applicant a summons to appear in court for 
arraignment in August 2022. Applicant immediately hired a lawyer (ESQ1) to represent 
him in the matter. About a week later, he met with ESQ1, informed him that he had paid 
for an international vacation to start in August 2022, and that his arraignment hearing 
would conflict with his vacation plans. ESQ1 told Applicant to proceed as planned with 
vacation, and that he would register with the court and make an appearance on 
Applicant’s behalf for the arraignment. (GE 2; Tr. 48-50; AE G) 
Applicant proceeded with his vacation as planned, but unbeknownst to him, ESQ1 
did not register as his counsel or make an appearance for the arraignment. The court 
issued a warrant for Applicant’s arrest, and a short time after he returned from vacation, 
the Sheriff arrived at his home and arrested him for failure to appear for his arraignment. 
Applicant fired ESQ1 and recouped his attorney’s fee. (GE 1,2; Tr. 50-52; AE H) 
Applicant sought a second lawyer (ESQ2) to represent him in the matter. He had 
a previous relationship with ESQ2, who prepared his Will and estate planning documents. 
ESQ2 informed Applicant she was experienced in criminal law and competent to handle 
his case. He hired ESQ2 and over time she negotiated a plea agreement with the 
prosecutor that Applicant found satisfactory to conclude the matter. (GE 1,2; Tr. 51-62) 
In September 2022, the Sheri ff arrested Applicant again based on a warrant 
alleging additional charges for shoplifting at MERC. Applicant was unaware of the new 
allegations. He later learned the local MERC operated as a regional training center for 
loss prevention, and as part of training, was able to retrieve videos of past purchases by 
name and credit card number. They found three previous instances of Applicant making 
similar errors while purchas ing goods using self-checkout registers. ESQ2 was given 
video evidence of Applicant making purchases using MERC self-checkout registers on 
June 9, June 12, and June 18, and noted scanning errors, which had formed the basis of 
his arrest in September. The stolen goods altogether totaled about $117. Applicant 
reported his criminal shoplifting charges to his supervisors and facility security officer 
(FSO), who were unaware of the charges before his disclosure. (GE 2; Tr. 51-70; AE I) 
In October 2022, Applicant said he pled guilty to two counts of misdemeanor 
shoplifting as negotiated by ESQ2. There is conflicting evidence in the record that 
suggests he pled “nolo contendere,” was found guilty , and sentenced . (AE G, I). The 
hand-written notes in AE G and AE I are difficult to decipher and not entirely clear on this 
point. Applicant said his comments to the judge during his guilty plea were very brief. He 
told the judge he did not intend to steal the goods, but that he failed to scan them correctly 
by mistake. He also told the judge that he took responsibility for his inattention to detail 
3 
 
 
          
          
        
         
           
       
  
 
  
           
     
    
    
   
     
 
       
       
        
             
         
         
       
  
 
      
        
      
          
        
       
    
            
      
       
    
 
 
        
          
           
       
       
      
       
and accepted the consequences of his actions, which resulted in him taking goods from 
MERC that he did not pay for. The judge accepted his explanation of the events, found 
him guilty of two misdemeanor shoplifting charges, and sentenced him in accordance with 
the terms of his plea agreement. (Tr. 50-65; AE A, AE G -J) Though a copy of the plea 
agreement was not offered in evidence and is not in the record, Applicant testified to the 
terms of the plea agreement, which is supported by information in AE G, AE I, AE J, and 
AE K, as detailed below. 
o Convicted of misdemeanor shoplifting, two counts; 
o Jail sentence of 12 months imposed; 11 months 18 days suspended; 
o Serve jail sentence beginning October 21, 2022, on weekends only; 
o On probation for local community-based probation agency; 
o Restitution order for $235.59; conditioned on suspended sentence; 
o Other: banned from MERC for 12 months; 
o No drugs, no marijuana, no CBDs. 
Applicant made significant positive changes to his life after his arrest and 
conviction for misdemeanor shoplifting. He successfully completed all the above actions 
in compliance with the court’s order, without problems, and provided proof of the same. 
He completed a shoplifting course, and also decided to go above and beyond the court’s 
requirements by participating in seven mental health counseling sessions with a licensed 
psychologist to help him better understand why he made these mistakes, and to develop 
skills to avoid similar mistakes in the future. He also avoids using self-checkout registers. 
(Tr. 60-67; AE A) 
Applicant presented proof of his outstanding professional performance of duties in 
the Navy and beyond. He is a valued member of the defense contractor team, as 
evidenced by 10 pay-raises in 11 years, and annual bonuses. His senior-level supervisor, 
also the Vice President of the company, testified favorably about his technical proficiency 
in his field , his honesty and commitment to mission success ; and highly recommended 
him for a security clearance. Applicant’s wife of 30 years testified favorably about his 
honesty, integrity, technical excellence, dependability, and commitment to the defense 
mission and family. Applicant also submitted letters of support, which included his current 
supervisor. All persons expressed their awareness of his misdemeanor shoplifting 
conviction, commented favorably on his initiative, dependability, and honesty, and favored 
his application for a security clearance. (Tr. 19-35; AE B-F, L) 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” EO 10865 § 2. 
4 
 
 
       
        
 
         
      
        
    
 
           
   
         
      
         
    
 
 
        
             
         
        
  
 
    
    
        
        
       
        
       
          
 
 
 
 
  
   
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
decision. An a dministrative judge must consider all available and reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” EO 10865 § 7. 
Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant has 
not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have established 
for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for acc ess to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 15-01253 at 3 
(App. Bd. Apr. 20, 2016). 
Once  the  Government establishes a  disqualifying  condition  by substantial 
evidence, the  burden  shifts to  the  applicant  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or mitigate  the  
facts.  Directive ¶  E3.1.15.  An  applicant “has the  ultimate  burden  of demonstrating  that  it  
is clearly consistent with  the  national interest to  grant or continue  his security clearance.”  
ISCR  Case  No.  01-20700  at  3  (App.  Bd. Dec. 19,   2002).  “[S]ecurity  clearance  
determinations should err, if they must,  on  the  side  of denials.” Department of the  Navy  
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988); see AG ¶  2(b).  
Analysis  
Guideline E, Personal Conduct  
The security concern under this guideline is described in AG ¶ 15: 
5 
 
 
    
      
     
      
      
  
 
          
   
 
 
         
   
 
          
  
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to 
provide truthful and candid answers during the security clearance process 
or any other failure to cooperate with the security clearance process. 
AG ¶ 16 describes conditions that could raise a security concern and may 
be disqualifying. The following disqualifying condition is potentially applicable: 
AG ¶  16(e): personal  conduct,  or concealment of information   about  one’s 
conduct,  that creates a  vulnerability to  exploitation, manipulation, or duress 
by a  foreign  intelligence  entity or other individual or group. Such  conduct 
includes:  (1) engaging  in  activities  which,  if known,  could  affect the  person’s  
personal, professional, or community standing.  
Applicant’s admissions and the evidence in this case are sufficient to establish the 
disqualifying condition in AG ¶ 16(e). 
AG ¶ 17 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. The following 
are potentially applicable: 
AG ¶  17(c): the  offense  is so  minor, or so  much  time  has passed, or the  
behavior is so infrequent,  or it happened under such unique circumstances  
that it  is unlikely to  recur and  does not cast doubt on  the  individual's  
reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;  
AG ¶  17(d):  the  individual has acknowledged  the  behavior and  obtained  
counseling  to  change  the  behavior or taken  other positive steps to  alleviate  
the  stressors,  circumstances,  or  factors that  contributed  to  untrustworthy,  
unreliable, or other inappropriate behavior, and such  behavior is unlikely to  
recur;  and  
AG ¶  17(e): the  individual has taken  positive steps to  reduce  or eliminate  
vulnerability to exploitation, manipulation, or duress.  
AG ¶¶  17(c),  17(d),  and  17(e) are  established.  Applicant’s misdemeanor shoplifting  
incidents happened  under unique  circumstances that are unlikely to  recur and  does not  
case  doubt on  his reliability, trustworthiness, or judgment.  This case  involved  one  incident  
where a purchase  discrepancy of $28  was found. MERC, a  regional training  center for  
loss prevention,  researched  Applicant’s historical purchases using  his name  and  credit  
card number and  found  three  prior incidents  of shoplifting. There  were  no  subsequent  
incidents  of  him  being  stopped, and  his purchases  audited. He reported  his criminal  
shoplifting  charges to  his supervisors, FSO, and  family. He took full  responsibility for his  
actions, satisfied  the  court’s requirements,  and  voluntarily participated  in counseling  to  
avoid making  similar mistakes in the  future. He also avoids using  self-checkout registers.  
6 
 
 
       
  
 
 
  
 
 
           
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
No basis for coercion, exploitation, or duress exists as a result of this matter. Applicant 
has mitigated personal conduct security concerns. 
Guideline J, Criminal Conduct  
The security concern for criminal conduct is described in AG ¶ 30: 
Criminal activity creates doubt about an  Appellant’s judgment,  reliability, 
and  trustworthiness. By its very nature, it calls into  question  a  person’s  
ability or willingness to  comply with laws, rules and regulations.  
Applicant’s admissions and the evidence in the case establish the following 
disqualifying condition under AG ¶ 31. 
AG ¶ 31(a): a  pattern of minor offenses, any one  of which on  its own would  
be  unlikely  to  affect  a  national security eligibility decision,  but which in  
combination  cast doubt on  the  individual's judgment,  reliability,  or 
trustworthiness;  and  
AG ¶  31(b): evidence (including, but not limited to, a credible  allegation, an  
admission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of  
whether the individual was formally charged,  prosecuted, or convicted.  
Conditions that could mitigate criminal conduct security concerns are provided 
under AG ¶ 32. The following are potentially applicable: 
AG ¶  32(a): so  much  time  has elapsed  since  the  criminal behavior  
happened, or it happened  under such  unusual circumstances, that it is 
unlikely to  recur and   does  not cast   doubt  on  the  individual’s  reliability,  
trustworthiness, or good judgment; and  
AG ¶  32(d): there is evidence  of  successful rehabilitation; including, but not  
limited  to,  the  passage  of time  without  recurrence  of  criminal  activity, 
restitution, compliance  with  the  terms of parole  or probation, job  training  or 
higher education, good  employment record,  or constructive  community  
involvement.  
AG ¶¶  32(a) and  32(d) are established. The  analysis under Guideline  E  applies 
equally here. Applicant’s misdemeanor shoplifting  incidents happened  over 33  months  
ago,  under unusual circumstances  that are  unlikely  to  recur. Applicant  admitted  his  
responsibility for the  incidents,  accepted  his  punishment,  and  completed  all  the  court’s  
requirements. He also   went above  and  beyond  the  court’s requirements by   voluntarily 
participating  in  counseling  to  understand  his mistake,  and  to  develop  skills to  avoid  
making  a  similar mistake  in the  future.  He also  avoids using  self-checkout  registers. 
Applicant has mitigated criminal conduct security concerns.  
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
       
          
      
      
 
        
          
    
       
       
          
         
       
           
       
         
    
 
      
  
 
  
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the  whole-person  concept,  the  administrative judge  must  evaluate  an  
applicant’s eligibility for a  security clearance  by considering  the  totality of the  applicant’s  
conduct and  all  relevant circumstances.  The  administrative  judge  should  consider the  
nine  adjudicative  process factors listed at AG  ¶ 2(d):  
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  
and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct;  
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole -person concept. I have incorporated my 
comments under Guideline E and J in my whole-person analysis. Many of the factors in 
AG ¶ 2(d) were addressed under these guidelines, but some warrant additional comment. 
I had the opportunity to observe Appellant’s demeanor during the hearing and 
found him credible. I weighed the favorable evidence , including the testimony of his 
senior-level supervisor, who strongly supports his application for a security clearance. His 
current supervisor also wrote a strong letter of support, and both attested to his honesty, 
integrity, dependability, and technical proficiency in his field. I considered the number of 
shoplifting incidents at MERC as a whole , which was a single incident that led to the 
discovery of other prior incidents of making the same errors. Weighing these facts against 
Applicant’s 33-year history of success holding a security clearance without an issue, his 
strong employment record in the Navy and beyond; his dependability at work and at 
home; his commitment to the defense mission, and his demonstrated diligence in 
completing all the courts requirements , and going beyond those requirements to help 
avoid similar mistakes in the future. He no longer uses self-checkout registers. 
Overall, I have determined the evidence favors granting a security clearance. 
Applicant successfully mitigated security concerns under Guidelines E and J. 
8 
 
 
 
        
    
 
  
 
    
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  E:   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
FOR APPLICANT  
Subparagraph  1.a:  For Applicant  
Paragraph  2, Guideline  J:  FOR APPLICANT  
Subparagraph  2.a, 2.b:  For Applicant  
Conclusion  
 It  is clearly consistent with  the  national interest to  grant Applicant’s eligibility for a  
security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted.  
Gatha LaFaye 
Administrative Judge 
9 