 
 
 
                                                              
  
                      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
     DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS      
           
             
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
         
      
       
             
           
  
        
 
        
      
         
        
     
         
  
  
 
______________ 
______________ 
In  the  matter of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR  Case No.  23-01584  
  )  
Applicant for Security Clearance  )  
 
Appearances  
For Government: Andrew Henderson, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Sean Rogers, Esq. 
02/06/2025 
Decision  
BENSON, Pamela C., Administrative Judge: 
Based on a review of the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits, I conclude that 
Applicant has mitigated the concerns related to Guideline C (foreign preference), but at 
the current time, she has not mitigated the security concerns under Guideline B (foreign 
influence) raised by the presence of h er parents and sister li ving in Taiwan, and their 
foreign financial interest in a significant business operating there. Her request for national 
security eligibility and a security clearance is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
On October 19, 20 23, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
(DCSA) Consolidated Adjudication Services (CAS) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) 
to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline B (foreign influence ) and 
Guideline C (foreign preference) . This action was taken under Executive Order (EO) 
10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as 
amended; Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel 
Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the 
adjudicative guidelines implemented by the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
1 
 
 
 
            
          
         
        
            
 
           
         
       
        
          
       
     
 
       
        
        
        
      
      
   
 
      
        
        
          
       
       
  
 
        
    
            
          
           
           
      
           
              
           
      
       
           
            
      
        
      
On November 28, 2023, Applicant responded to the SOR and admitted all of the 
SOR allegations under Guidelines B and C. She requested to have a decision issued by 
a Defense Office Hearings and Appeals ( DOHA) administrative judge based upon the 
written record. On February 26, 2024, Applicant’s counsel requested that Applicant would 
rather have a hearing before a DOHA administrative judge, and the request was granted. 
The case was assigned to me on August 6, 2024. On September 5, 2024, DOHA 
issued a notice of hearing, sche duling the hearing for October 9, 20 24. The hearing 
proceeded as scheduled. Department Counsel submitted t wo documents, Government 
Exhibits (GE) 1 and 2, and a disclosure letter dated February 28, 2024. I marked the 
disclosure letter as Hearing Exhibit (HE) I. Applicant testified, five witnesses testified on 
her behalf , and she submitted 15 documents labeled as Applicant’s Exhibits (AE) A 
through O. All proffered documents were admitted into evidence without objection. 
The Government requested I take administrative notice of certain facts relating to 
Taiwan and China . Department Counsel provided a six-page summary of the facts, 
supported by 10 Government references pertaining to Taiwan, identified as Administrative 
Notice (AN) I. The documents provide elaboration and context for the summar y. I take 
administrative notice of the facts included in the U.S. Government reports. They are 
limited to matters not subject to reasonable dispute. They are set out in the Findings of 
Fact. 
The Government also requested that I take administrative notice of certain facts 
relating to the People’s Republic of China (China) due to its relationship to Taiwan. 
Department Counsel provided a 12-page summary of the facts, supported by 2 1 
Government references pertaining to China, identified as AN II. The documents provide 
elaboration and context for the summary. I take administrative notice of the facts included 
in the U.S. Government reports. They are limited to matters not subject to reasonable 
dispute. They too are set out in the Findings of Fact. 
Applicant objected to the administrative notices because “everything put together 
is basically an inflammatory compilation of just unending articles about sensational things 
that have happened with espionage.” The basis of the objection also noted that most of 
the administrative documents pertained to Guideline B , but because there was also a 
Guideline C security concern, “there's just no established relevance in this case of what's 
been alleged in the SOR to [Applicant] because there's been no tie to Taiwan or China's 
government in the allegations demonstrated or even alleged. It's just simply that 
[Applicant], …. availed herself of citizenship in Taiwan, and what comes along with that 
is being able to use the healthcare. And then the other allegation that she has relatives 
that live in Taiwan, it's just a bad allegation. And so there's no tie to her parents in that, 
that her parents somehow are intertwined with the government of Taiwan or China in 
some way or that anybody is beholden to the Taiwanese government or the Chinese 
government.” As noted above I accepted both administrative notice documents into the 
record. The administrative notice materials are included in the record to show the basis 
for concluding that the noticed facts are generally accepted within the U.S. government 
and are not subject to reasonable dispute. The Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals 
(DOHA) received the transcript (Tr.) on October 17, 2024. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
         
       
            
           
         
         
 
 
          
         
          
              
          
        
          
       
            
         
          
    
  
 
        
          
         
       
 
 
 
 
           
         
          
     
        
Findings of Fact  
The SOR alleges foreign influence security concerns based on Applicant’s family 
members, a mother, father, and a sister , as residents in Taiwan. (SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b) 
Applicant, a U.S. citizen, also acquired Taiwanese citizenship in April 2020 to benefit from 
long stays in Taiwan without the need for a visa, and for the health insurance provided by 
the Taiwanese government, alleged as a foreign preference security concern in the SOR. 
(SOR ¶¶ 2.a and 2.b) In her Answer, Applicant admitted all of the allegations . After a 
thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits, I make the following findings 
of fact: 
Applicant is 26 years old. She was born and raised in Taiwan as a U.S. citizen to 
parents who are U.S. citizens , but who had moved to Taiwan in December 1996 . 
Beginning in sixth grade , her parents paid for her to attend a private “Taipei American 
school,” which cost about $25,000 in tuition per year. At the age of 18, she left Taiwan for 
the U.S. to attend college. In 2020, when the COVID -19 pandemic hit the U.S. and 
Applicant’s college closed, she returned to live with her family in Taiwan. She did not feel 
comfortable living with family members in the U.S. due to their age, which placed them in 
a higher risk category. Her permanent residency status in Taiwan expired when she 
turned 19 years-old, and so in 2020, she entered Taiwan on a tourist visa. Applicant then 
obtained Taiwanese citizenship about a month later for the convenience of staying in 
Taiwan indefinitely during the pandemic and to avoid tourist visa restrictions. In addition, 
she was able to access the Taiwanese national healthcare. (GE 1; Tr. 24, 27-33, 35-40; 
AE B) Applicant stated, 
“…the borders [in Taiwan] were closed-off to foreign nationals. So you either 
had to have a permanent residency card or be a citizen [of Taiwan to enter]. 
And that might have been the case in -- during winter break when I went 
back. So if I had not gotten [Taiwanese citizenship], I would've been stuck 
alone in, you know, my off-campus apartment.” Tr. 50 
Applicant  also opened  a  foreign  bank account. During  the  hearing,  she  assumed  
that  this foreign  bank account  had  closed  after  she  renounced  her Taiwanese  citizenship 
in June  2024.  She  admitted  that she  renounced  her foreign  citizenship only after she  
received  the  SOR in  October 2023. A  Taiwanese  passport was issued  to  her in  April 2020. 
She  surrendered  her  foreign  passport in  about April 2024  to  the  Taiwanese  Consulate. 
She  used  this passport to  enter and  exit Taiwan  only.  In  May 2021, she  graduated  from  
a  U.S. college  with  a  bachelor’s degree  in engineering.  She  also registered  to  vote  in the  
U.S. Applicant is unmarried and does not have any children. (Tr.  41-45; GE 1; AE  A, D)  
Applicant is the oldest of three sisters. The middle sister also left Taiwan at the 
age of 18 to attend college in the U.S. She is currently in her fourth year of college. 
Applicant’s youngest sister i s in hig h school and lives with their parents in Taiwan. 
Applicant expects that in August 2025 her youngest sister will come to the U.S. to attend 
college as well. After Applicant graduated college, she returned to her home in Taiwan to 
3 
 
 
 
        
    
 
         
        
          
          
        
         
              
     
           
      
   
 
       
        
        
        
         
          
         
         
        
  
 
           
        
           
          
          
          
            
      
          
  
 
       
       
          
           
     
       
     
 
        
      
spend her last summer with her family before she returned to the U.S. in September 2021 
to permanently reside and work. (Tr. 42; GE 1) 
In December 1996, Applicant’s father moved to Taiwan with his new wife to run a 
sandwich franchise business with his brother, who still resides in Taiwan . Applicant’s 
father, a U.S. citizen, left the franchise business after about seven years , and he now 
works in Taiwan as a certified public accountant (CPA) doing certified work as a chief 
financial officer (CFO). He does do work for some foreign-owned small and medium-sized 
enterprises (SMEs). He also does U.S. tax returns for Americans, also referred to as 
expats, in Taiwan. He stated that he and his wife would like to move back to the United 
States, but because of his wife’s company, they expect it will take three to four years 
before they can make the move. Approximately two years ago he was making between 
$300,000 to $400,000 annually. He has since cut back his work hours and currently 
makes about $150,000 annually. (Tr. 87-90, 93-103) 
Applicant’s mother, a U.S. and Taiwanese dual citizen, started a granola company 
in Taiwan about 15 years ago. She now has a factory and employs about 13 workers. Her 
current business revenue is approximately five million dollars a year. She estimated that 
her business i s now worth about 10 million dollars . This information was not alleged in 
the SOR. She follows all Taiwanese government laws and regulations in the operation of 
her business. She denied that she or her company was beholden to the Taiwanese 
government. She obtained her Taiwanese citizenship after she had lived in Taiwan for 15 
years, and she only did so for practical reasons so she could operate her business without 
complications. She was able to obtain Taiwanese citizen because her father was 
Taiwanese when he immigrated to the United States at the age of 30. (Tr. 105-108) 
Although Applicant has lived the majority of her life in Taiwan, her parents have 
always identified themselves as Americans. The family spoke only English in the home, 
and they lived in an expat community with other Americans. Every year they would travel 
to the United States and spend about two months visiting family members. Applicant 
intends to make the U.S. her permanent place of residence, and she has no intentions to 
return to Taiwan to reside or work there. Applicant stated, “… the U.S. is my home. This 
is, you know, where I've lived as an adult, and I plan on living here for the foreseeable 
future.” She did admit that the only reason she would ever consider reapplying for her 
Taiwanese citizenship is if there were ever a health or medical crisis and she needed 
healthcare, she would be able to obtain that healthcare from Taiwan. (Tr. 47, 51) 
Applicant’s former supervisor at her current place of employment testified on her 
behalf. She found Applicant to be intelligent, honest, and trustworthy. She and Applicant 
also spent time together outside of work , and she got to see her character in a more 
personal environment. She stated that she had been working with a security clearance 
for the past ten years, and from what she knew of Applicant and realizing that she was a 
valuable asset to the company , she had no reservations for recommending that 
Applicant’s security clearance be granted. (Tr. 65-68) 
Any adverse information not alleged in the SOR will not be considered for 
disqualification purposes but may be considered in evaluating application of mitigating 
4 
 
 
 
         
 
 
 
      
 
       
      
     
      
         
          
          
       
        
     
           
        
          
             
 
 
 
            
      
          
        
       
     
      
     
        
       
     
 
 
 
 
     
        
      
         
   
 
conditions and in applying the whole-person concept. See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 15-07369 
at 3 (App. Bd. Aug. 16, 2017). 
Administrative Notice  
I have taken administrative notice of the following facts concerning Taiwan: 
Taiwan is a multiparty democracy; whose authorities generally respect the human 
rights of its citizens. Taiwan is an active collector of industrial information and engages in 
industrial espionage, as shown by the administrative notice documents in the record. 
However, the record does not demonstrate that the Taiwanese government seeks to exert 
pressure on U.S. citizens to collect information from family members residing in country 
or abroad. Finally, it is worth noting that the U.S. Government, and the Defense 
Department in particular, have a close and continuing relationship with Taiwan and its 
military, in accordance with the Taiwan Relations Act of 1979, which has governed policy 
in the absence of diplomatic relations or a defense treaty with Taiwan. In 2018 the 
Secretary of Defense stated, “The Department of Defense remains steadfastly committed 
to working with Taiwan to provide the defense articles and services necessary to maintain 
sufficient self-defense consistent with our obligation set out in our Taiwan Re lations Act. 
We oppose all unilateral efforts to alter the status quo and will continue to insist any 
resolution of differences accord with the will of the people on both sides of the Taiwan 
Strait.” 
China   
I take administrative notice of the facts set forth in the Administrative Notice 
documents concerning China, which are incorporated herein by reference. China is a 
large and economically powerful country, with a population of more than a billion people 
and an economy growing at about 10% per year. China has an authoritarian government, 
dominated by the Chinese Communist Party. It has a poor record with respect to human 
rights, suppresses political dissent, and engages in arbitrary arrests and detentions, 
forced confessions, torture, and mistreatment of prisoners. China is one of the most 
aggressive countries in seeking sensitive and protected U.S. technology and economic 
intelligence. It targets the United States with active intelligence gathering programs, both 
legal and illegal. As a result, it is a growing threat to U.S. national security. In addition, 
China views Taiwan as part of China. China has engaged in many different coercive 
diplomatic and military activities, seeking to isolate and intimidate Taiwan into unification 
on China’s terms. 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
5 
 
 
 
          
     
         
           
     
       
         
 
 
      
     
   
 
        
       
       
      
         
 
           
        
    
              
      
       
           
  
 
           
           
      
 
 
 
 
   
 
      
    
         
       
      
     
    
     
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number o f variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline B, Foreign Influence  
The security concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 6 as follows: 
Foreign contacts and interests , including, but not limited to, business, 
financial, and property interests, are a national security concern if they result 
in divided allegiance. They may also be a national security concern if they 
create circumstances in which the individual may be manipulated or induced 
to help a foreign person, group, organization, or government in a way 
inconsistent with U.S. interests or otherwise made vulnerable to pressure 
or coercion by any foreign interest. Assessment of foreign contacts and 
interests should consider the country in which the foreign contact or interest 
6 
 
 
 
 
          
  
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
       
             
        
            
             
       
 
is located, including, but not limited to, considerations such as whether it is 
known to target U.S. citizens to obtain classified or sensitive information or 
is associated with a risk of terrorism. 
Two disqualifying conditions under this guideline are relevant to this case: 
AG ¶  7(a): contact,  regardless of method, with  a  foreign  family member,  
business or professional associate, friend, or other person  who  is a  citizen  
of or resident in a  foreign  country if that contact creates a  heightened  risk 
of foreign  exploitation,  inducement, manipulation,  pressure, or coercion;  
and  
AG ¶  7(f):  substantial business, financial,  or  property  interests in  a  foreign  
country, or in any foreign  owned  or foreign-operated  business that could  
subject  the  individual to  a  heightened  risk of foreign  influence  or exploitation  
or personal conflict of interest.     
Guideline  B  is not limited  to  countries hostile to   the  United  States. “The  United  
States  has a  compelling  interest  in protecting  and  safeguarding  classified  information  
from  any person, organization, or country that is not authorized  to  have  access  to  it,  
regardless  of  whether that  person,  organization, or country  has interests inimical to  those  
of the United States.” ISCR Case No. 02-11570 at 5 (App. Bd. May 19, 2004).  
Furthermore,  “even  friendly  nations  can  have  profound  disagreements  with  the  
United  States  over matters  they view  as  important  to  their  vital  interests or national 
security.”  ISCR  Case No.  00-0317  (App.   Bd. Mar. 29,  2002).  Finally, we know friendly  
nations have  engaged  in espionage  against  the  United  States, especially in the  economic,  
scientific, and  technical fields.   Nevertheless, the  nature  of a  nation’s government, its   
relationship  with  the  United  States, and  its human-rights record are relevant in  assessing  
the  likelihood  that an  applicant’s family members are vulnerable to  government coercion.   
The  risk of coercion,  persuasion, or  duress is significantly greater if the  foreign  country  
has an  authoritarian  government,  a  family member is  associated  with  or dependent  upon  
the  government, or the  country is  known to  conduct intelligence  operations against the  
United  States. In  considering  the  nature of the  government,  an  administrative judge  must  
also consider any terrorist activity in the  country at issue. See  ISCR  Case  No.  02-26130  
at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 7, 2006).  
AG ¶ 7(a) requires substantial evidence of a “heightened risk.” The “heightened 
risk” required to raise one of these disqualifying conditions is a relatively low standard. 
“Heightened risk” denotes a risk greater than the normal risk inherent in having a family 
member living under a foreign government . See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 12-05839 at 4 
(App. Bd. Jul. 11, 2013). “Heightened risk” is not a high standard. See, e.g., ISCR Case 
No.1703026 at 5 (App. Bd. Jan. 16, 2019).  
Taiwan  is an  active  collector of industrial espionage. Accordingly, Applicant’s   
family connections in  that country have  the  potential to  generate  a  heightened  risk of  
foreign  exploitation, inducement,  manipulation, pressure, or coercion  under AG ¶  7(a).  
7 
 
 
 
           
       
       
        
     
            
          
 
 
     
             
      
          
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
       
       
        
       
          
       
         
     
The mere possession of close family ties with a person in a foreign country is not, as a 
matter of law, disqualifying under Guideline B. However, if only one relative lives in a 
foreign country and an applicant has contact with that relative, this factor alone is sufficient 
to create the potential for foreign influence and could potentially result in the compromise 
of classified information. In addition, though not specifically alleged, I have considered 
China’s activities and attitude with regard to Taiwan and the United States. ( See ISCR 
Case No. 03 -02382 at 5 (App. Bd. Feb. 15, 2006); ISCR Case No. 99 -0424 (App. Bd. 
Feb. 8, 2001).) 
Applicant has family members residing in Taiwan , and she maintains close and 
frequent contact with them. Her parents are unable to leave Taiwan and relocate to the 
United States for approximately the next four years because they must get their company 
and substantial financial asset in order and ready for sale. AG ¶ ¶ 7(a) and 7(f) are 
applicable. 
The following mitigating conditions under this guideline are potentially relevant: 
AG ¶  8(a): the  nature of the  relationships with  foreign  persons, the  country  
in which  these  persons are  located,  or  the  positions  or activities of  those  
persons in  that country are such  that it is unlikely the  individual will  be  placed  
in a  position  of having  to  choose  between  the  interests of a  foreign  
individual, group, organization, or government and  the  interests  of the  
United States;  
AG ¶  8(b): there is no   conflict of interest, either because  the  individual’s 
sense  of loyalty or obligation  to  the  foreign  person, group, government,  or  
country is so  minimal,  or the  individual has such  deep  and  longstanding  
relationships and  loyalties in the  U.S.,  that the  individual can  be  expected  
to resolve any conflict of interest in  favor of the U.S. interest;   
AG ¶  8(c): contact or communication  with  foreign  citizens is so  casual and  
infrequent that there is  little likelihood  that it could create  a  risk for foreign  
influence or exploitation; and  
AG ¶  8(f)  the  value  or routine  nature of the  foreign  business,  financial, or  
property  interests is  such  that they  are  unlikely to  result in  a  conflict and  
could  not be  used  effectively to  influence,  manipulate,  or pressure the  
individual.  
I have carefully considered the fact that Applicant’s parents and sister live in 
Taiwan, and her mother owns a successful company with an estimated value of about ten 
million dollars, which merits consideration under the mitigating factors. Common sense 
suggests that the stronger the ties of affection or obligation, the more vulnerable a person 
is to being manipulated if the relative, cohabitant, or close associate is brought under 
control or used as a hostage by a foreign intelligence or security service. Concerning 
family ties, the language of Guideline B does not require a conclusion that an 
unacceptable security concern exists based solely on an applicant's family ties in a foreign 
8 
 
 
 
         
          
  
 
        
      
           
          
              
            
    
       
          
 
 
       
       
      
     
          
         
 
 
 
 
 
             
       
      
      
     
       
     
           
       
           
  
 
 
 
       
            
country. An administrative judge must consider the record evidence as a whole in 
deciding if the facts and circumstances of an applicant's family ties pose an unacceptable 
security concern under Guideline B. 
The DOHA Appeal Board has held that i t is a mitigating condition if (1) the 
immediate family members or associates are not agents of a foreign power and (2) are 
not in a position to be exploited by a foreign power in a way that could force the individual 
to choose between loyalty to his family members and loyalty to the United States. (See 
ISCR Case No. 99-0424) I find the first prong of this analysis to be satisfied, but given the 
facts and circumstances in this case, I unable to find that the second prong is satisfied. 
Applicant’s mother’s business is significant , and the Taiwanese government could 
potentially use this valuable asset as a means to obtain classified information. As such, 
her mother’s business in Taiwan could be used as a means to effectively pressure or 
coerce Applicant. 
The record evidence demonstrates Applicant has all the indicators of an 
industrious, mature, responsible, and trustworthy individual. After weighing the record 
evidence as a whole, it is my commonsense determination that the facts and 
circumstances show Applicant's ties to Taiwan and her parent s’ financial asset in a 
business operating in Taiwan currently poses an unacceptable risk or concern of foreign 
influence. AG ¶¶ 8(a), 8(c), and 8(f) do not apply. Foreign influence security concerns are 
not mitigated. 
Guideline C, Foreign Preference  
The security concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 9: 
When an individual acts in such a way as to indicate a preference for a 
foreign country over the United States, then he or she may provide 
information or make decisions that are harmful to the interests of the United 
States. Foreign involvement raises concerns about an individual’s 
judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness when it is in conflict with U.S. 
national interests or when the individual acts to conceal it. By itself; the fact 
that a U.S. citizen is also a citizen of another country is not disqua lifying 
without an objective showing of such conflict or attempt at concealment. 
The same is true for a U.S. citizen's exercise of any right or privilege of 
foreign citizenship and any action to acquire or obtain recognition of a 
foreign citizenship. 
The  security concern  under this guideline  is not limited  to  countries  hostile to  the  
U.S. “Under the facts of a  given case, an applicant’s preference, explicit or implied, even  
for a  nation  with  which  the  U.S. has  enjoyed  long  and  peaceful relations, might pose  a  
challenge to U.S. interests.” ADP Case No. 07-14939  at 4 (App. Bd. Mar. 11, 2009).   
Dual citizenship standing alone is not sufficient to warrant an adverse security 
clearance decision. ISCR Case No. 99 -0454 at 5 (App. Bd. Oct. 17, 2000). Under 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
           
           
         
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
     
           
       
       
         
         
         
 
 
 
          
      
         
    
 
Guideline  C, “the  issue  is not whether an  applicant is  a  dual national, but rather whether  
an  applicant shows a  preference  for a  foreign  country through  actions.”  ISCR  Case  No.   
98-0252  at 5  (App. Bd.  Sep.   15, 1999).  The  following  disqualifying  conditions under this  
guideline are potentially relevant:  
AG ¶  10(a):  apply for and/or acquiring citizenship in any other country;  and  
AG ¶  10(e):  using  foreign  citizenship to  protect financial interests … in 
another country in violation  of U.S. law.  
Applicant, a U.S. citizen, also acquired Taiwanese citizenship in April 2020 to 
benefit from long stays in Taiwan without the need for a visa, and for the health insurance 
provided by the Taiwanese government, alleged as a foreign preference security concern 
in the SOR. 
The following mitigating conditions under this guideline are potentially relevant: 
AG ¶  11(a):  the  foreign  citizenship  is not  in conflict with  U.S.  national  
security interests;  
AG ¶  11(c):  the  individual has  expressed  a  willingness to  renounce  the  
foreign  citizenship that  is in conflict with  U.S. national security  interests;  and  
AG ¶  11(e):  the  exercise  of  the  entitlements or benefits of foreign  citizenship  
do not present a  national security concern.  
Applicant was born in Taiwan, but her parents registered her as a U.S. citizen born 
abroad. She did obtain Taiwanese citizenship in 2020, but she needed to do so due to 
the outbreak of the COVID -19 pandemic , the closure of her college, and travel 
restrictions. She did not want to be required to leave the country once her 90-day tourist 
visa expired. Although she once held a foreign passport, also obtained during the 
pandemic, she used her U.S. passport when entering and leaving the United States. She 
has since renounced her foreign citizenship and no longer has a foreign passport. Foreign 
preference security concerns are mitigated. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole -person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  
10 
 
 
 
      
       
       
         
       
           
  
 
         
         
        
               
          
           
     
          
  
 
 
        
    
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
   
 
    
     
  
 
 
 
 
_______________________ 
and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct;  
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2( c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. I considered the potentially 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances 
surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under Guidelines B and C and 
the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) in this whole-person analysis. 
Applicant has shown herself to be a patriotic American citizen and a valuable asset 
to her employer. At the current time, her parents and sister reside in Taiwan. She has 
frequent and regular contact with these family members because she has affection and 
cares for them deeply. Her parents do not believe they will be able to move to the U.S. 
within the next four years due to their efforts of getting their valuable business ready for 
sale. Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts as to Applicant’s 
suitability for national security eligibility and a security clearance. For all these reasons, 
Although I conclude Applicant mitigated the Foreign Preference security concerns, she 
has not overcome the government’s Foreign Influence security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline B:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a.  and  1.b:  Against Applicant 
Paragraph  2, Guideline  C:  FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 2.a.  and 2.b:  For Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, I conclude 
that it is not clearly consistent with national security to grant Applicant eligibility for a 
security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Pamela C. Benson 
Administrative Judge 
11 