 
 
 
 
                                                             
   
                        DEPARTMENT  OF DEFENSE  
     DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS      
           
             
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
           
        
       
      
   
    
         
    
  
 
______________ 
______________ 
In  the  matter of:  )  
 )  
 [Name Redacted]  )   ISCR  Case No.  23-01448  
  )  
 )  
Applicant for Security Clearance  )  
Appearances  
For Government: Sakeena Farhath, Esquire, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
02/18/2025 
Decision  
HOGAN, Erin C., Administrative Judge: 
On August 8, 2023 , the De partment of De fense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline F , Financial 
Considerations, and Guideline G, Alcohol Consumption. The action was taken under 
Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry 
(February 20, 19 60), as amended; Department of Defense Directive 5220.6, Defense 
Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as 
amended (Directive) ; and t he adjudicative guidelines (AG) effective within the 
Department of Defense on June 8, 2017. 
On  August  16, 2023, Applicant  answered  the  SOR  and  requested  a  hearing  
before  an  administrative  judge.  The  case  was assigned  to  another administrative judge  
on  April 2,  2024, and  transferred  to  me  on  June  4, 2024.  A Notice of  Hearing  was  
issued  on August 14,  2024, scheduling  the  hearing  on  October 8,  2024. The  hearing  
was held  as  scheduled, via  video-teleconference. During  the  hearing, the  Government  
offered  six exhibits  which  were  admitted  as Government  Exhibits (GE)  1  - 6.  The  
Government’s Exhibit list was marked   as Hearing  Exhibit (HE) I.  Applicant  testified  and  
offered  four exhibits which were admitted  without objection  as Applicant Exhibits (AE) A-
D. The  record  was held open  until  October 31, 2024,  to  allow Applicant to  submit  
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
      
      
        
         
    
 
        
       
  
 
 
         
    
 
 
      
          
            
         
         
            
          
additional documents.  Applicant submitted  two  exhibits which  were  admitted  as AE  E - 
F  without objection.  Applicant  was  given  several continuances  so  that  he  could  submit  
additional documents with  the  final date  of  January 13, 2025.(HE  III)  He submitted  four  
additional documents which  were  admitted  as AE  G –  AE  J  without objection.  (HE II  
consists of Department Counsel’s e -mails  noting  no  objection  to  Applicant’s post -
hearing  documents.) The  transcript  (Tr.) was received  on  October 16, 2024.  Based  
upon a review of the  pleadings, exhibits, and  testimony, eligibility for access to  classified  
information is denied.   
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 46-year-old employee of a DOD contractor seeking to maintain a 
security clearance. He has worked for his current employer since September 2024. He 
has worked for other DOD contractors in the past and has held a security clearance 
since 2020. He divorced his wife in 2019 and has three sons from this marriage, ages 
21, 20 and 13. He currently lives with a partner, who m he refers to as his wife, but they 
are not married. They have a three-year-old son. (Tr.24, 30-31, 51; Gov 1) 
The names of individuals, businesses, and institutions have been changed in this 
decision in the interests of protecting the Applicant’s privacy. More detailed information 
is in the case file. 
Guideline F, Financial Considerations:  
In his answer to the SOR, Applicant denies the allegation in SOR ¶ 1. b and 
admits to all of the remaining SOR allegations. 
Applicant submitted  an  Electronic  Questionnaire  for Investigations  Processing  (e-
QIP) on  January 27, 2019. In  response  to  Section  26, Financial Record, Applicant  
answered, “yes ” in  response  to  whether he  had  delinquent  accounts, charged -off  
accounts, or delinquent accounts that were placed  for collection.  He listed  15 delinquent  
debts. A  subsequent security clearance  background  investigation  confirmed  he  still  had  
delinquent accounts.  The  SOR alleged  15  delinquent accounts,  totaling  approximately  
$134,253. (GE 1)  The  debts  include:  $101,552  delinquent  child  support account  (SOR  ¶  
1.a: GE  1  at  82-83;  GE  2  at  6;  GE  3  at  2);  a  $5,125  debt  that  was placed  for  collection  
(SOR ¶  1.b: GE  3  at  2; GE  6 at 2);  a $2,506  delinquent child  support account  (SOR ¶  
1.c:  GE  3  at 2; GE  4  at 2);  and  a  $130  charged-off  account.  (SOR  ¶  1.d:  GE  3  at  3;  GE  
4 at 4).  
Additional delinquent accounts include : a $103 charged-off account (SOR ¶ 1.e: 
GE 3 at 3 ; GE 4 at 7 ); a $ 63 delinquent cable/internet account that was placed for 
collection (SOR ¶ 1.f: GE 3 at 3); a $9,604 charged-off account (SOR ¶ 1.g: GE 4 at 2); 
a $ 3,903 account that was placed for collection (SOR ¶ 1. h: GE 4 at 2); a $2,133 
medical account that was placed for collection (SOR ¶ 1.i: GE 4 at 3); a $ 1,848 
delinquent account that was placed for collection (SOR ¶ 1.j: GE 4 at 3); an $886 
delinquent account that was placed for collection (SOR ¶ 1.k: GE 4 at 3); a $695 
2 
 
 
 
 
         
      
           
   
 
     
           
      
         
        
      
 
       
            
           
    
 
       
           
       
         
    
           
           
   
 
         
          
           
            
       
             
     
 
 
  
 
           
  
 
          
          
          
    
       
          
delinquent medical account that was placed for collection (SOR ¶ 1.l: GE 4 at 3); a $240 
delinquent medical account that was placed for collection (SOR ¶ 1.m: GE 4 at 3); a 
$228 delinquent utility account that was charged off (SOR ¶ 1.n: GE 4 at 4); and a $112 
delinquent medical account that was placed for collection (SOR ¶ 1.o: GE 4 at 4). 
A credit report dated October 2, 2024, listed two additional delinquent debts that 
were not alleged in the SOR. A $63 debt that was placed for collection in July 2023 (GE 
6 at 2: AE A at 12 ) and a $593 department store credit card account that was charged -
off in April 2023. (GE 6 at 2 ; AE A at 9 ; AE D at 19 -20) Since these debts were not 
alleged in the SOR, they will not be considered under disqualifying conditions under 
Guideline F, but will be considered under matters of extenuation and mitigation. 
Applicant’s SOR also contained one allegation under Guideline G, Alcohol 
Consumption. In September 2018, he was arrested and charged with Driving Under the 
Influence (DUI). In January 2019, he was found guilty. His license was suspended for 
one year and he was on probation for one year. (SOR ¶ 2.a: GE 5) 
Applicant testified that his financial problems were caused by being laid off in 
2020. He was unemployed for a period of six months between 2020 and 2021 He was 
unable to find well paying positions. The COVID -19 pandemic also adversely affected 
his ability to find suitable employment. His unemployment caused him to get behind on 
his child support payments. He was divorced in 2019. His child support order took effect 
in 2019 or 2020. He was ordered to pay $2,800 a month in child support. After he lost 
his job, he just was trying to survive and stopped paying child support. He attempted to 
have the court reduce his child support, but it was denied. (Tr. 24-25) 
When Applicant found employment, the courts sought on order to have his 
wages garnished for child support. In 2023, he was making enough money that he 
began to make double child support payments. He testified that he paid $5,000 a month 
for a period of time. He did not provide documentation verifying this assertion. The child 
support is taken out as a direct allotment from his paycheck. He mentioned that since 
he changed jobs, he had to fill out new paperwork to have his child support taken from 
his paycheck. Child support payments should begin once the paperwork is processed. 
(Tr. 26-28) 
The status of each SOR debt is: 
SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.c will be addressed together because they both relate to 
delinquent child support. 
SOR ¶ 1.a: a $101,552 delinquent child support account and SOR ¶ 1.c: a 
$2,506 child support arrearage. (AE C; Response to SOR) It is unclear whether the se 
debts come from the same child support account. During the hearing, Applicant was not 
very clear about where his child support accounts are located. After the hearing, 
Applicant noted in his post-hearing documentation that he had two child support orders , 
one from State One where his ex -wife and his three sons resided and another from 
3 
 
 
 
 
        
           
       
            
               
        
     
             
          
       
           
  
        
           
 
  
 
    
        
     
     
        
             
       
         
       
 
 
        
           
    
           
        
     
 
       
        
State Two for another child. When the support orders were established, he was working 
for a contractor overseas earning more income than he earned upon returning to the 
United States. After returning from Iraq, he endured several months of unemployment. 
When he eventually found a job, he was earning $21 an hour. He repeatedly attempted 
to have his State One child support order revise d because of his reduced income. His 
requests were denied. He claims he was making his child support payments 
consistently, but State One was deducting 50 percent of his paychecks. He struggled 
financially and was unable to keep up with his child support obligations. Once he found 
better paying employment, he was able to begin to catch up on his financial obligations. 
He states his credit report indicated at one point, his child support arrearages once 
exceeded $80,000. (The credit reports at GE 2 and GE 3 indicate the delinquency was 
$100,552.) He has made significant payments to lower this amount. As of December 12, 
2024, State One indicated he owed approximately $17,611 in child support arrearages. 
He claims two of his sons are over 18 and are no longer on his child support order. (AE 
J) 
While  Applicant said  his other child  support order was for State  Two, the  
documents provided  indicated  he  has a  child  support order in  State  Three.  It  is unclear  
whether this relates to  the  child  support order in State  Two. He provided  a  document  
from  the  State  Three  Department  of  Child Support Enforcement indicating  that as of  
October 1, 2024, he  owed  approximately  $8,169  in past due  child  support. The  
statement also indicated  that  his child  support obligation  was $664  monthly.  (AE  C; AE  
E) Applicant claims his child  support  is no  longer in  collection  status. He  admits  to  
having  his license  suspended  for failure to  pay child  support. He  was able to  get his  
license back about a year ago. (Tr. 42-43)  
Applicant provided copies of his pay statements from his previous employer 
which indicated that he made payments of $538.61 towards his State One Child 
Support every two weeks in March 2024, July 2024 and August 2024. He paid $153.24 
towards his State Three Child Support order in March 2024, from July 7, 2024 to August 
4, 2024. The last paycheck he provided indicates that he paid $83.07 in child support to 
the child in State Three and $98.32 to the State One Child Support Order. It is unclear 
as to why the child support payments were reduced. The August 2024 paystub 
indicated that he paid a total of $3,454 towards the State Three Child Support Order so 
far in calendar year 2024 and a total of $17,333 towards the State One Child Support 
Order so far in calendar year 2024. (AE I) 
At his current job, there is an income withholding order of support for a son, who 
was born in November 2017. This appears to be related to the State Three Child 
Support Order. The support order deducts $664 for his current child support and $86 for 
past-due child support for a total of $750 per month. (AE F) Applicant provided copies of 
his paychecks dated December 27, 2024 , and January 10, 2025. Approximately 
$346.10 is being deducted from his current paycheck for child support. (AE J at 4-8). 
The record is unclear whether he is making consistent payments towards his 
State One Child Support Order. Applicant was given the opportunity to contact the child 
4 
 
 
 
 
        
     
           
   
 
 
          
         
      
        
       
      
    
 
         
   
      
        
       
     
    
 
       
       
          
 
 
             
            
     
 
        
       
    
support office of each state where he has child support orders to obtain a copy of his 
child support payment history. (Tr. 42-43, 62) He did not provide copies of his payment 
histories in either State One or State Three. I am not certain there is a child support 
case in State Two. It is likely being handled in State Three. 
SOR  ¶  1.b:  a $5,125  delinquent account placed  for collection: In  his  response  to  
the  SOR, Applicant disputed  this debt.  He mentioned  he  is working  with  a credit repair  
agency to  dispute  this  debt.  During  the  hearing, he  provided  an  updated  copy of his  
credit report, dated  October 8, 2024.  The  credit report indicated  on  page  11  that a  new  
collection  agency  was collecting  on  behalf  of the  creditor. It   also  indicated  Applicant  was  
disputing  this account. The  dispute  was denied.  On  August  16, 2024, he  signed  a  
contract with  a  debt resolution  firm. The  agreement involved  settling  two  debts. The  
other debt was a  credit  card debt  that had  an  approximate  balance  of $6,129. It was not  
alleged  in  the  SOR.  He  agreed  to  pay  the  debt  resolution  firm  $267.03  on  a  monthly  
basis over a  period  of  36  months to  resolve  this account The  monthly payments are  
withdrawn directly from  his checking  account.  The  debt  is likely  being  resolved. (Tr.  44-
45; AE B; AE G)  
SOR ¶ 1.d: a $ 130 delinquent account that was charged off : In his response to 
the SOR, Applicant admits this debt, but claims he paid it. He was unable to provide a 
receipt. Applicant provided a credit KARMA report, dated August 11, 2023, which 
indicated that debt was to remain on the report until May 2024. It is likely the debt was 
removed from his credit report because of the seven -year statute of limitations under 
Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA). The debt is not listed on his most recent credit report 
dated October 8, 2024. (Tr. 46-47; AE A; AE D at 13-14) 
SOR ¶ 1. e: a $ 103 account that was charged off. In his response to the SOR, 
Applicant admits this debt, but claims it was paid off. He was unable to provide a 
receipt. Applicant provided a credit KARMA report, dated August 11, 2023, which 
indicated that debt was to remain on the report until June 2024. It is likely the debt was 
removed from his credit report because of the seven -year statute of limitations under 
FCRA. The debt is not listed on his most recent credit report dated October 8, 2024. (Tr. 
46-47; AE A; Response to SOR; AE D at 16) 
SOR ¶ 1.f: a $ 63 delinquent cable television bill that was placed for collection. In 
his response to the SOR, Applicant admits this debt, but claims it was paid off. He was 
unable to provide a receipt. (Tr. 47-48; Response to SOR; GE 3 at 3; GE 6 at 2; AE A at 
12) 
SOR ¶ 1.g: a $9,604 account that was charged off. In his response to the SOR, 
Applicant admits this debt, but states it is resolved and is no longer listed on his credit 
report. He did not provide documentation that he paid the debt. (Response to SOR) 
SOR ¶ 1.h: $3,903 delinquent account that was placed for collection: Applicant 
admits this debt, but claims it is resolved and is no longer list ed on his credit report. He 
provided no documentation indicating the debt was paid. (Response to SOR) 
5 
 
 
 
 
      
        
        
 
         
       
     
 
        
       
    
 
    
        
        
 
      
        
       
 
     
         
       
 
    
        
       
  
         
   
           
       
  
 
 
 
SOR ¶ 1.i: $2,133 delinquent medical account that was placed for collection: 
Applicant admits this debt, but claims it is resolved and is no longer list ed on his credit 
report. He provided no documentation indicating the debt was paid. (Response to SOR) 
SOR ¶ 1.j: $1,848 delinquent account that was placed for collection: Applicant 
admits this debt, but claims it is resolved and is no longer list ed on his credit report. He 
provided no documentation indicating the debt was paid. (Response to SOR) 
SOR ¶ 1.k: $886 delinquent account that was placed for collection: Applicant 
admits this debt, but claims it is resolved and is no longer list ed on his credit report. He 
provided no documentation indicating the debt was paid. (Response to SOR) 
SOR ¶ 1.l: $695 delinquent medical account that was placed for collection: 
Applicant admits this debt, but claims it is resolved and is no longer list ed on his credit 
report. He provided no documentation indicating the debt was paid. (Response to SOR) 
SOR ¶ 1.m: $240 delinquent medical account that was placed for collection: 
Applicant admits this debt, but claims it is resolved and is no longer list ed on his credit 
report. He provided no documentation indicating the debt was paid. (Response to SOR) 
SOR ¶ 1.n: $228 delinquent utility account that was charged off: Applicant admits 
this debt, but claims it is resolved and is no longer list ed on his credit report. He 
provided no documentation indicating the debt was paid. (Response to SOR) 
SOR ¶ 1.o: $112 delinquent medical account that was placed for collection: 
Applicant admits this debt, but claims it is resolved and is no longer list ed on his credit 
report.  He provided no documentation indicating the debt was paid. (Response to SOR) 
After the hearing, Applicant provided an updated budget. He listed his total 
monthly income as approximately $14,681. His listed his actual monthly expenses as 
approximately $6,029. He pays $2,760 in monthly child support. It appears that he has 
$1,880 left over each month after expenses. This may not be entirely accurate because 
the budget worksheet is confusing. (AE J at 3)   
Guideline G  –  Alcohol Consumption  
Applicant admits that he  was arrested  in September 2018  for DUI.   He drank too  
much  alcohol at his nephew’s birthday  party. He got into  a  single  vehicle  accident  while  
driving  home  from  the  party. He  says  it was  his fault.  He  said  that his decision  to  drive  
after drinking  alcohol was a  mistake  and  very bad  judgment.  No  one  else  was injured  in  
the  accident.  He completed  all  of the  terms of his sentence.  He took an  alcohol  
awareness  class.  His license  was suspended  for one  year. He got his license  back. He  
has not drank alcohol in  over four years. The  last  time  he  drank  alcohol was in  June  or  
July 2020. The  September 2018  DUI was his only alcohol-related  offense. He stopped  
drinking  because  he  has a  family to  care for. He claims he  seldom  drank around  the  
6 
 
 
 
 
         
    
 
 
     
        
       
      
   
 
          
      
         
 
     
       
         
 
 
      
      
       
         
  
 
        
       
       
        
          
  
 
          
   
  
              
      
         
      
    
  
        
            
      
   
time that he was arrested for DUI. He does not intend to let it happen again. He has not 
had any additional alcohol-related arrests/incidents. (Tr. 53-55; GE 1 at 73-74; GE 5) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are useful in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for access for national 
security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this 
decision, I have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical , and based 
on the evidence contained in the record. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, 
or mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel. . . .” The 
applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable security 
decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation 
as to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that decisions shall be “in terms of the national 
interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
      
      
 
     
   
            
   
      
          
     
    
    
        
       
  
 
 
 
 
 
          
           
      
        
   
     
    
       
      
     
         
        
        
          
 
 
    
          
       
 
GUIDELINE F: Financial Considerations  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Financial Considerations is set 
out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
Affluence that cannot be explained by known sources of income is also a 
security concern insofar as it may result from criminal activity, including 
espionage. 
AG ¶  19  notes  several disqualifying  conditions that  could  raise  security concerns.  
The disqualifying conditions that are relevant to Applicant’s case include:  
(a) inability to satisfy debts;  and  
(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations.   
At the time the SOR was issued, A pplicant had 15 delinquent accounts, an 
approximate total of $129,128. Of that amount, $10 4,058 was for delinquent child 
support; $21,890 were delinquent consumer debts, and $3,180 were delinquent medical 
debts. He has a history of financial irresponsibility. AG ¶¶ 19(a) and 19(c) apply. 
An individual who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible, 
unconcerned, or careless in his obligations to protect classified information. Behaving 
irresponsibly in one aspect of life provides an indication of how a person may behave in 
other aspects of life. A person’s relationship with his creditors is a private matter until 
evidence is uncovered demonstrating an inability or unwillingness to pay debts under 
agreed terms. Absent evidence of strong extenuating or mitigating circumstances, an 
applicant with a history of serious or recurring financial difficulties is in a situation of risk 
inconsistent with the holding of a security clearance. An applicant is not required to be 
debt free but is required to manage his finances in such a way as to meet his financial 
obligations. 
The Government’s substantial evidence and Applicant’s own admissions raise 
security concerns under Guideline F. The burden shifted to Applicant to produce 
evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the security concerns. (Directive ¶ 
E3.1.15) 
8 
 
 
 
 
        
       
 
 
 
 
  
           
        
         
        
            
    
  
 
       
      
            
         
  
 
         
     
        
        
             
           
            
   
 
        
            
            
         
          
AG ¶ 20 includes examples of conditions that could mitigate security concerns 
arising from financial difficulties. The following mitigating conditions potentially apply to 
Applicant’s case: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or occurred  
under such  circumstances that it is unlikely to  recur and  does not cast  
doubt on  the  individual's current  reliability, trustworthiness, or  good  
judgment;  
(b) the  conditions  that resulted  in the  financial problem  were largely  
beyond  the  person's control (e.g.,  loss of employment,  a  business  
downturn, unexpected  medical emergency,  a  death, divorce  or separation,  
clear victimization  by  predatory  lending  practices, or identity  theft),  and  the  
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;  and  
(d) the  individual initiated  and  is adhering  to  a  good-faith  effort to  repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.  
AG ¶ 20(a) does not apply . While most of Applicant’s debts became delinquent 
several years ago, they are still considered recent because “an applicant’s ongoing 
unpaid debts evidence a continuing course of conduct, and, therefore, can be viewed as 
recent for purposes of the Guideline F mitigating conditions. ISCR Case No. 15 -06532 
at 3 (App. Bd. Feb. 16, 20217) (citing ISCR Case No. 15 -01690 at 2 (App.Bd. Sept. 13, 
2016) Applicant’s failure to resolve his delinquent debts raised questions about his 
reliability, trustworthiness, and good judgment. 
AG ¶ 20(b) partially applies because Applicant encountered brief periods of 
unemployment as well as a divorce , which were conditions beyond his control. This 
mitigating condition is given less weight because he did not act responsibly under the 
circumstances. He chose to ignore his delinquent debt and his child support payments 
for years. I cannot conclude he acted responsibly under the circumstances. 
AG ¶ 20(d) partially applies with respect to the debts alleged in SOR ¶¶1. a - 1.c. 
Applicant provide proof that he is making payments towards his delinquent child support 
debts. The balance of his delinquent child support for State One has been reduced from 
$101,000 to presently $17,611. He is also is paying his child support for the child in 
State Three. Applicant entered into a payment plan with a credit repair company to 
resolve the debt alleged SOR ¶ 1.b. At the close of the record, he was just beginning to 
make the monthly payments towards the debt. I cannot conclude he is adhering to the 
payment plan. For this reason, the mitigating condition is given less weight. 
AG ¶ 20(d) does not apply to the remaining SOR allegations because he failed to 
provide documentation to prove that he paid the debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.b, 1.d -1.o. 
While Applicant claims he paid the debts, he provided no proof of resolution for any of 
these debts other than the debts no longer appear on his credit report. It is likely the 
debts are no longer on his credit report because more than seven years have passed 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
       
          
       
  
   
 
    
        
     
 
 
         
       
           
    
     
 
 
   
 
 
 
         
       
      
          
          
  
 
since  the  debts became  delinquent and  were removed  from  his credit reports in  
accordance  with  the  FCRA. Passively waiting  for the  debts to  become  unenforceable  
because of  the  statute of limitations is  not  considered  a  good-faith effort to  resolve one’s 
debts.  It remains  significant  for security clearance  purposes.  See  ISCR  case  No.  15-
02326  at 3  (App. Bd.  Oct. 14, 2016) and  ISCR  Case  No.  15-01208  at 3  (App. Bd. Aug  
26, 2016)  
While Applicant is paying down his child support delinquenc ies in State One and 
State Three, he did not provide sufficient proof that he paid or resolved his remaining 
debts. He did not mitigate the security concerns raised under the Financial 
Considerations Guideline. 
Guideline G (Alcohol Consumption)  
The concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 21: “Excessive alcohol 
consumption often leads to the exercise of questionable judgment or the failure to 
control impulses and can raise questions about an individual's reliability and 
trustworthiness.” 
Applicant’s arrest in for DUI in September 2018 and subsequent conviction in 
January 2019 establishes the disqualifying condition in AG ¶ 22(a): “alcohol-related 
incidents away from work, such as driving while under the influence, fighting, child or 
spouse abuse, disturbing the peace, or other incidents of concern, regardless of the 
frequency of the individual's alcohol use or whether the individual has been diagnosed 
with alcohol use disorder.” 
The following mitigating conditions are potentially applicable to Applicant’s case: 
AG ¶  23(a): so  much  time  has  passed, or  the  behavior was so  infrequent,  
or it happened  under such  unusual circumstances  that  it is  unlikely to  
recur or does  not  cast doubt on  the  individual's current reliability,  
trustworthiness, or judgment;  and   
AG ¶  23(b):  the  individual acknowledges  his  or her pattern  of maladaptive  
alcohol  use, provides  evidence  of  actions taken  to  overcome  this problem,  
and  has  demonstrated  a  clear and  established  pattern of modified  
consumption  or abstinence  in  accordance  with  treatment  
recommendations.  
AG ¶ 23(a) applies. It has been over six years since Applicant’s arrest for DUI. 
He has not had any additional alcohol -related incidents. There is no evidence in the 
record that Applicant was a habitual user. AG ¶ 23(b) applies in that Applicant stopped 
drinking alcohol about four years ago. While no t a habitual user, he decided to stop 
drinking alcohol because he wanted to avoid the risk of future problems for himself and 
his family. Applicant mitigated the security concerns raised under alcohol consumption. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
         
      
        
    
 
 
       
       
    
 
         
      
          
        
         
      
          
          
       
         
      
  
     
 
       
      
       
 
  
     
   
 
     
 
   
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole -person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all the circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the nine 
timely adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of  
rehabilitation  and  other permanent  behavioral changes;  (7) the  motivation  
for the  conduct;  (8) the  potential  for pressure, coercion,  exploitation, or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood  of continuation  or recurrence.   
Under AG ¶ 2( c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
the facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I considered Applicant has worked 
for the same defense contractor since 2022. I considered Applicant’s divorce in 2019 as 
well as his period s of unemployment. I also considered that h e failed to pay his child 
support obligations which resulted in a large delinquency. I considered that he is paying 
down his delinquent child support. He entered into a repayment agreement pertaining to 
the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.b. However, the repayment agreement is fairly recent. It is 
too soon to conclude that debt will be resolved. The remaining debts alleged in the SOR 
are no longer on his credit report, but it appears he chose to passively wait seven years 
until the debts were no longer on his credit report rather than pay them. While 
Applicant’s current financial situation appears to have improved, his past actions raise 
questions about his trustworthiness and reliability. Security concerns under financial 
considerations are not mitigated. 
Applicant mitigated the security concerns raised under Alcohol Consumption. His 
DUI arrest occurred in 2018. He has completed the terms of his sentence and has no 
subsequent alcohol-related incidents. He stopped drinking alcohol four years ago. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  F:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 1.a and 1.c: For Applicant  
11 
 
 
 
 
    
 
  
 
    
 
 
             
         
    
 
 
                                                
 
 
 
_________________ 
Subparagraphs 1.b, 1.d-1.o:  Against Applicant 
Paragraph  2, Guideline G:   FOR APPLICANT  
Subparagraph  2.a:  For Applicant  
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national security to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
ERIN C. HOGAN 
Administrative Judge 
12 