 
 
 
 
               
 
                  DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
        DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS   
           
             
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
     
 
 
    
  
   
      
    
      
  
   
    
"'L 09i~ .t!J~ 0 
"' ;:. "tr 
00 
"" 
______________ 
______________ 
In  the matter  of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR Case No.  23-01442  
  )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance  )  
Appearances  
For G
overnment: Dan O’Reilley, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
06/30/2025 
Decision  
FOREMAN, LeRoy F., Administrative Judge: 
This case involves security concerns raised under Guideline s B (Foreign 
Influence), K (Handling Protected Information), and E (Personal Conduct). Applicant has 
refuted the allegations in the SOR. Clearance is granted. 
Statement  of the Case  
On October 5, 2020, a facility security officer (FSO) reported to the Defense 
Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) that a person from a foreign country 
attempted to acquire classified military information through App licant, a retired military 
officer. On December 18, 2023, the DCSA sent Applicant a Statement of Reasons (SOR) 
based on the FSO’s report, alleging security concerns under Guidelines B, K, and E. The 
DCSA acted under Executive Order ( Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified 
Information within Industry (February 20, 19 60), as amended ; Department of Defense 
(DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) 
 1 
 
 
 
 
  
    
  
      
    
    
  
     
  
 
   
    
      
 
 
 
     
    
      
 
  
 
  
     
 
 
    
   
      
  
   
  
 
      
    
 
   
     
  
       
    
 
    
   
  
       
promulgated in Security Executive Agent Directive 4, National Security Adjudicative 
Guidelines (December 10, 2016), which became effective on June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR on January 5, 2024, denied all the allegations, and 
requested a hearing before an a dministrative judge. Department Counsel was ready to 
proceed on September 10, 2024, and the case was assigned to me on April 2, 2025. On 
April 11, 2025 , the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) notified Applicant 
that the hearing was scheduled to be conducted by video teleconference on May 29, 
2025. I convened the hearing as scheduled. Government Exhibits (GX) 1 through 3 were 
admitted in evidence without objection. 
Applicant testified, presented the testimony of one witness, and submitted 
Applicant’s Exhibit (AX) A, which was admitted without objection. The record closed upon 
adjournment of the hearing on May 29, 2025. DOHA received the transcript on June 11, 
2025. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 72-year-old retired U.S. military officer. He served on active duty 
from June 1975 to September 2011. He married in J anuary 1983 and divorced in May 
2013. At the hearing, during questioning about his personal history, he disclosed that his 
divorce occurred because he had an extramarital affair, and he pays his ex-wife monthly 
alimony of $3,500. (Tr. 16) 
Applicant has held various levels of security clearances , including eligibility for 
sensitive compartmented information (SCI) since about June 1975. He has worked as a 
self-employed consultant since November 2021. 
In June 2019, Applicant was hired by Company A as the chief technology officer. 
(Tr. 17) He became acting chief executive officer (CEO) in June 2020, after the previous 
CEO was fired by the Company A’s foreign parent company , and he served in that 
capacity until November 2021 . Company A is one of two U.S. subsidiaries of a foreign 
aerospace company. Company A is incorporated in the United States but owned by the 
foreign aerospace company. The other U.S. subsidiary is Company B. Competition for 
business between Company A and Company B is intense and sometimes hostile. (Tr. 11) 
Before Applicant became CEO of Company A , there was an atmosphere of animosity 
between Company A and Company B, driven by personalities, primarily at the CEO level. 
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges the following conduct under Guideline B and cross -alleges it 
under Guidelines K and E: “On or about August 18, 2020, while employed with [Company 
A], you attempted to acquire classified information without official authorization, via 
[Company B].” The SOR was based on the incident report sent by the Company B’s FSO 
to DCSA on October 5, 2020. (GX 2) The report states: 
On 5 Oct 2020, the FSO for [Company B] reported to DCSA that [a foreign 
national] attempted to acquire classified military information and 
technologies through the subject, a non-cleared U.S. person. [Applicant] is 
a retired [U.S. military officer] and is cleared for SCI, but does not have 
2 
 
 
 
 
    
    
    
     
    
   
     
   
   
    
    
     
   
  
    
   
   
     
  
  
 
  
      
      
 
  
      
   
   
      
     
        
      
    
      
 
   
     
   
     
         
    
 
     
   
     
    
affiliation with [Company A]. [Applicant] is a cleared consultant with another 
company as well as the [U.S. military], and is also employed by [the foreign 
aerospace company], a cleared consultant with another company as well 
as the [U.S. military ]. On 18 August 2020, [a pro gram security lead] 
contacted the FSO of [Company B] regarding a security anomaly. 
[Applicant] learned of an RFP (request for proposals) being put out to 
industry suppliers. The VP of Tech Sales for [Company B] requested 
classified documents, data, information associated to the RFP be sent to 
[Company B] for [Applicant] to retrieve. The security lead, not understanding 
[the rules for] FOCI [foreign-owned, controlled, or influenced companies], 
initially granted [Applicant] access to the classified program information 
through e- mail. When the security lead learned that [Applicant] is not 
authorized access to the information, the approval for access was retracted. 
[Applicant] did not gain access to the information. The FSO indic ated that 
this was the second time that [Applicant] has attempted to access classified 
information without official authorization. The FSO indicated that [Applicant] 
presents himself in an unclear manner by allowing recipients to believe that 
[Company A and Company B] are the same. [Applicant] further attempts to 
influence interactions and conversations by stating that he is a retired 
[senior officer] and held a security clearance. 
At the beginning of the hearing, and again during his closing statement, Department 
Counsel announced that he had asked the FSO of Company B, who sent the above 
report, to testify about the allegations, but the FSO declined to testify. (Tr. 9, 70-71) 
Applicant is not employed by the foreign parent company, as alleged in the FSO’s 
report, but by Company A. (Tr. 11) Applicant disputed the FSO’s allegation that he used 
his military rank in his attempts to access classi fied information. He testified that he 
usually introduces himself by his first name and not his military rank, as alleged in the 
incident report. (Tr. 13) His receipts for the SOR and the Notice of Hearing, bearing his 
first name, middle initial, and last name , with no military rank listed, corroborate this 
aspect of his testimony. When he visited an air show in France as the representative of 
Company A, his official badge set out only his first and last names. ( Tr. 28) When he 
interacted with his counterparts, he always made it clear that he represented Company A 
and not the parent foreign company. (Tr. 28) 
Applicant testified that almost all of his communications with the foreign parent 
company or Company B would have been with his counterpart CEO, and that he typically 
would not have been involved at the working level for actions like requesting information 
for an RFP. He believes that if there was a request for information for an RFP, it would 
have been sent by his vice-president of technical sales, and he ordinarily would not have 
been aware of the request. (Tr. 12) 
Applicant testified t hat Company A sought contracts for foreign technology that 
would benefit the U.S. military. Most of the RFPs were an effort to obtain foreign 
technology that could be “Americanized” by removing foreign parts so that they could 
market it in the United States. (Tr. 18) In order to “Americanize” the parts, they needed 
3 
 
 
 
 
    
  
     
    
  
   
   
  
  
     
  
      
    
   
      
 
 
  
    
        
   
     
  
 
 
      
   
  
     
    
  
      
 
 
   
   
    
   
      
    
 
     
  
  
   
   
the detailed design data to find U.S. design and manufacturing companies who could do 
the work. 
One of three directors and a proxy holder of Company A is also a retired militar y 
officer, and he was appointed to be the director of the Company A’s government security 
committee, which consists of three members with top secret security clearances. The 
committee is required by DCSA to oversee the Company A’s security program and make 
sure that the FOCI (foreign-owned, operated, or influenced) rules are followed. The 
committee director testified that what should have occurred in Applicant’s case is that the 
FSO of Company B should have reported the suspected violation to the security 
committee, an emergency meeting of the committee would have occurred, and the 
committee would have appointed a neutral investigating officer to determine what 
happened and what actions should be taken. The committee would have notified DCSA 
that it had received a report of a possible violation and, if a violation was found to have 
occurred, reported it to DCSA. That procedure was not followed in this case. Instead, the 
FSO of Company B reported directly to DCSA that a suspected violation had occurred. 
(Tr. 36-39) 
The committee director also testified that at the time Appellant took over as acting 
CEO of Company A, the corporate structure of the company , in both the foreign country 
and the United States, was in turmoil due to problems dealing with COVID-19, changes 
in the leadership in Company A and Company B , and changes in the leadership of the 
foreign parent company. He believes that the incident at issue in this case may have been 
blown out of proportion because of “personal animosities and that sort of thing.” (Tr. 57) 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
decision. An a dministrative judge must consider all available and reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
4 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
   
    
   
  
 
   
   
 
    
   
   
    
 
   
   
  
 
   
       
 
  
 
 
   
    
     
 
 
 
   
 
   
    
   
  
   
   
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865 
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant 
has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have 
established for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan at 531. Substantial 
evidence is “such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to 
support a conclusion in light of all the contrary evidence in the same record.” See ISCR 
Case No. 17-0 4166 at 3 (App. Bd. Mar. 21, 2019) . It is “less than the weight of the 
evidence, and the possibility of drawing two inconsistent conclusions from the evidence 
does not prevent [a Judge’s] finding from being supported by substantial evidence.” 
Consolo v. Federal Maritime Comm’n, 383 U.S. 607, 620 (1966). “Substantial evidence” 
is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. Washington Metro. Area 
Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines presume a nexus or 
rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria listed therein and 
an applicant’s security suitability. ISCR Case No. 15-01253 at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 20, 2016).  
Once the  G overnment establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive  ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of  proving a mitigating condition,  
and the burden of disproving it  never shifts to the  Government.  See  ISCR Case No.  02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep.  22,  2005).   
 
A
n applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent 
with the national interest to grant or continue his security clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01-
20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if 
they must, on the side of denials.” Egan at 531. 
Analysis  
Guideline  B,  Foreign Influence  
The security concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 6: 
Foreign contacts and interests, including, but not limited to, business, 
financial, and property interests, are a national security concern if they result 
in divided allegiance. They may also be a national security concern if they 
create circumstances in which the individual maybe manipulated or induced 
to help a foreign person, group, organization, or government in a way 
inconsistent with U.S. interests or otherwise made vulnerable to pressure 
or coercion by any foreign interest. Assessment of foreign cont acts and 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
    
  
 
   
 
      
  
     
  
  
 
 
   
   
  
  
     
   
      
   
 
interests should consider the country in which the foreign contact or interest 
is located, including, but not limited to, considerations such as whether it is 
known to target U.S. citizens to obtain classified or sensitive information or 
is associated with a risk of terrorism. 
The following disqualifying conditions are potentially relevant: 
AG ¶ 7(a):  contact, regardless of method, with a foreign family  m
 ember,  
business  or professional associate, friend, or other person who is a citizen  
of or resident in a foreign country if that contact creates  a heightened risk  
of  foreign exploitation, inducement, manipulation,  pressure, or  coercion;  
AG ¶  7( b): connections to a foreign person,  gr oup, government, or  country  
that create a potential  conflict of interest between the individual's obligation  
to protect classified or sensitive information or technology and the  
individual's desire to help a foreign person, group, or country by providing  
that information or technology;  and  
AG ¶ 7(f): substantial  bus iness, financial, or  property interests in a foreign  
country, or in any foreign owned or foreign- operated business that could  
subject the individual to a heightened risk of foreign influence or exploitation  
or personal conflict of  interest.  
The ev
identiary issue in this case is whether the FSO’s report, standing alone, 
constitutes “substantial evidence,” as defined above. Even though it contains two levels 
of hearsay, I have concluded that it constitutes “substantial evidence. ” However, its 
probative value has been substantially undermined by the refusal of the Company B FSO 
to testify , the contentious relationship between Company A and Company B, and the 
FSO’s failure to submit his report to the government security committee, which would 
have triggered a full investigation of the alleged incident. 
Applicant denied all the allegations. His testimony was candid, plausible, and 
credible. He was open and forthcoming during cross-examination, to the extent that he 
admitted that his divorce in May 2013 occurred because of his extramarital affair. While 
it is possible that someone submitted a request for classified documents and claimed to 
be acting on behalf of Applicant, there is no evidence that Applicant was aware of such 
an attempt. 
The theory of the Government’s case under Guideline B appears to be that a 
foreign national attempted to use Applicant to obtain classified information, which would 
trigger the heightened risk in AG ¶ 7(a), the conflict of interest in AG ¶ 7(b), and the 
heightened risk of foreign influence or exploitation in AG ¶ 7(f). There is no credible 
evidence that Applicant had any connection with the foreign national referred to in the 
FSO’s report. Furthermore, the SOR does not allege and the evidence does not reflect 
that Applicant had any other connections to persons or groups in the foreign country or 
and financial or property interests in that country that would cause a heightened risk of 
foreign exploitation, inducement, manipulation, pressure or coercion or that would create 
6 
 
 
 
 
     
   
 
      
    
 
 
    
  
 
  
 
 
 
     
      
  
    
 
   
   
 
  
   
 
  
 
  
 
    
 
 
     
  
 
  
a potential conflict of interest. Accordingly, I conclude that Applicant has refuted the 
allegation in SOR ¶ 1.a, and none of the above disqualifying conditions are applicable. 
Guideline K, Handling Protected Information  
SOR ¶ 2.a cross- alleges the conduct allege d in SOR ¶ 1.a under this guidel ine. 
The concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 33: “Deliberate or negligent failure to 
comply with rules and regulations for handling protected information--which includes 
classified and other sensitive government information, and proprietary information--raises 
doubt about an individual's trustworthiness, judgment, reliability, or willingness and ability 
to safeguard such information, and is a serious security concern.” 
The following disqualifying conditions are potentially relevant: 
AG ¶  34(a):  del
iberate or negligent disclosure of  protected information to  
unauthorized persons, including,  but not limited to, personal or business  
contacts,  the  media, or  persons present at seminars, meetings, or  
conferences;  and  
AG ¶ 34(g): any failure to comply with rules for the protection of classified 
or
 sensitive information.  
Ap
plicant’s complicity an effort by a foreign national to obtain classified information 
without proper authorization, if proven, would establish Guideline K disqualifying 
conditions in AG ¶¶ 34(a) and 34(g). However, for the reasons set out in the above 
discussion of Guideline B, I conclude that neither disqualifying condition is established. 
Guideline  E,  Personal Conduct  
The security concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 15: “Conduct involving 
questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or unwillingness to comply with rules 
and regulations can raise questions about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and 
ability to protect classified or sensitive information. . . . 
The relevant disqualifying condition is AG ¶ 16(c): 
[C]redible adverse information in several adjudicative issue areas that is not 
sufficient for an adverse determination under any other single guideline, but 
which, when considered as a whole, supports a whole- person assessment 
of questionable judgment, untrustworthiness, unreliability, lack of candor, 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations, or other characteristics 
indicating that the individual may not properly safeguard classified or 
sensitive information. 
For the reasons set out in the above discussions of Guidelines B and K, I conclude 
that this disqualifying condition is not established. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
      
 
 
      
 
  
 
        
 
 
  
     
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Formal Findings  
I make the following formal findings on the allegations in the SOR: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline B (Foreign Influence):  FOR APPLICANT  
Subparagraph 1.a:  For Applicant  
Paragraph  2, Guideline K, Handling Protected Information:  FOR APPLICANT  
Subparagraph 2.a:  For Applicant  
Paragraph 3, Guideline E (Personal  Conduct):  FOR APPLICANT  
Subparagraph 3.a: For Applicant
Conclusion  
I conclude that it is clearly consistent with the national security interests of the 
United States to continue Applicant ’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
Clearance is granted. 
LeRoy F. Foreman 
Administrative Judge 
8 