 
 
  
 
  
        
         
           
             
 
 
    
  
       
  
   
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
         
 
     
     
       
   
 
 
  
   
    
  
    
   
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPA
RTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 23-02832 
Appearances  
For Government: Nicole A. Smith, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
09/02/2025 
Decision 
Dorsey, Benjamin R., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not mitigate the financial considerations security concerns. Eligibility 
for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
On March 19 , 202 4, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline F, financial 
considerations. She responded to the SOR on April 9, 2024, and requested a decision 
based on the written record in lieu of a hearing. 
The Government submitted its written case on April 1, 2025. A complete copy of 
the file of relevant material (FORM) was provided to Applicant, who was advised that she 
had 30 days from her date of receipt to file objections and submit material to refute, 
extenuate, or mitigate the security concerns. Applicant received the FORM on April 17, 
2025, and she timely submitted a response (FORM Response). The case was assigned 
to me on August 5, 2025. The Government exhibits included in the FORM, marked as 
Items 1 through 6, and the FORM Response are admitted in evidence without objection. 
 
 
 
   
 
    
      
 
   
   
 
    
 
  
   
     
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
    
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
     
   
  
  
 
 
 
     
  
  
   
  
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 40- year-old who is applying for security clearance eligibility. In its 
FORM narrative, the Government asserts that Item 3 (Applicant’s June 2023 security 
clearance application) discloses that Applicant has been employed by a government 
contractor since July 2023, but that information is not contained in that document or in the 
record evidence. Applicant earned a high school diploma in 2003 and a bachelor’s degree 
in 2019. She was married in 2012, but she has been legally separated since 2015. She 
served on active duty with the Navy from 2006 until 2012, when she earned an honorable 
discharge. She then served on inactive reserve in the Navy from 2012 until 2017. She 
has three children, ages 16, 12, and 4. (Items 3, 4) 
In the SOR, the Government alleged that Applicant had eight delinquent debts 
totaling approximately $58,000 (SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.h). As I will discuss in greater detail 
in my discussion of SOR ¶ 1.f, below, the record evidence reflects that the balance of that 
account is over $11,000 less than the amount alleged in the SOR. Therefore, in actuality, 
those eight delinquent debts combine for a total of about $47,000. The delinquencies 
consist of the following: a telecommunications debt (SOR ¶ 1.a); credit cards (SOR ¶¶ 
1.b, 1.c, and 1.e); a student loan (SOR ¶ 1.d); an automobile loan (SOR ¶ 1.f); an account 
with a credit union (SOR ¶ 1.g); and an account secured by unknown collateral (SOR ¶ 
1.h). She admitted the SOR allegations except for those contained in SOR ¶¶ 1.d and 
1.g, which she denied because she did not recognize those accounts. Her admissions 
are adopted as findings of fact. The SOR allegations are established through her 
admissions and the Government’s June 2023, March 2024, and April 2025 credit reports. 
(FORM Response; Items 2-6) 
The telecommunications debt placed for collection in the amount of $3,998 listed 
in SOR ¶ 1.a has not been resolved. Applicant claimed that she had a payment plan on 
this account, but the creditor allowed the account to continue to accrue late fees and go 
into collections. She did not provide any documents regarding this account. The June 
2023 credit report reflects a May 2023 date of last activity for this account. The March 
2024 credit report reflects a May 2019 date of last activity for this account. (FO RM 
Response; Items 2, 4-6) 
The credit card charged off in the amount of $2,352 listed in SOR ¶ 1.b has not 
been resolved. Applicant claimed that this “old” account was taken care of and not on her 
credit report. She did not provide any documents regarding this account. The June 2023 
credit report reflects a June 2023 date of last activity for this account. The March 2024 
credit report reflects a last payment date of November 2017 for this account. (FORM 
Response; Items 2, 4-6) 
The credit card charged off in the amount of $752 listed in SOR ¶ 1.c has not been 
resolved. Applicant claimed that the account was supposed to be taken care of and 
removed from her credit report. She did not provide any documents regarding this 
account. The June 2023 credit report reflects a June 2023 date of last activity for this 
account. The March 2024 credit report reflects a last payment date of March 2019 for this 
2 
 
 
     
 
 
  
    
  
 
    
 
 
     
 
  
  
 
    
   
  
 
    
  
 
     
 
 
 
 
    
  
     
 
   
 
 
    
 
   
  
   
   
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
account. This account does not appear on the April 2025 credit report. (FORM Response; 
Items 2, 4-5) 
The student loan delinquent in the amount of $5,589 with a total loan balance of 
$10,336, listed in SOR ¶ 1.d , has not been resolved. Applicant claimed that she did not 
recognize this account. She did not provide any documents regarding this account or any 
of her efforts to dispute it. The June 2023 and March 2024 credit reports reflect a June 
2018 date of last activity for this account. This account does not appear on the April 2025 
credit report. (FORM Response; Items 2, 4-5) 
The credit card charged off in the amount of $2,454 listed in SOR ¶ 1.e has not 
been resolved. Applicant claimed that this “old” account was supposed to have been 
taken care of and removed from her credit report. She claimed that she fell behind on this 
account when she and her estranged husband separated. She did not provide any 
documents regarding this account. The June 2023 credit report reflects a June 2017 date 
of last activity for this account. The March 2024 credit report reflects a last payment date 
of August 2017 for this account. This account does not appear on the April 2025 credit 
report. (FORM Response; Items 2, 4-5) 
The automobile loan charged off in the amount of $23,564 listed in SOR ¶ 1.f has 
been partially resolved. There is no evidence in the record showing this account had a 
balance higher than $12,262. Applicant claimed that the balance is about $6,000. She 
claimed that this account is in the process of being settled. She did not provide any 
documents regarding this account or that substantiated a balance less than $12,262. The 
June 2023, March 2024, and April 2025 credit reports reflect a March 2023 last payment 
date for this account. (FORM Response; Items 2, 4-6) 
The credit union account charged off in the amount of $10,817 listed in SOR ¶ 1.g 
has not been resolved. Applicant claimed that she did not recognize this account. She did 
not provide any documents regarding this account or any of her efforts to dispute i t. The 
June 2023 credit report reflects a May 2023 date of last activity for this account. This 
account does not appear on the March 2024 or April 2025 credit report s. (FORM 
Response; Items 2, 4) 
The secured loan charged off in the amount of $4,058 listed in SOR ¶ 1.h has not 
been resolved. Applicant claimed both that this account should have been closed 
because she does not have the items any longer, and that she is working on a settlement 
with the creditor. She did not provide any documents regarding this account. The June 
2023 credit report reflects an August 2022 date of last activity for this account. This 
account does not appear on the March 2024 or April 2025 credit report s. (FORM 
Response; Items 2, 4) 
While these accounts are not alleged in the SOR, the April 2025 credit report 
reflects two additional accounts that are “seriously past due.” One is a delinquent utility 
account with a balance of $1,383. The other is a cable account with a balance of $318 . I 
will not consider information not alleged in the SOR for disqualification purposes. I will 
consider it for appropriate purposes such as for mitigation and whole-person analysis. 
3 
 
 
 
    
 
    
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
      
    
    
  
 
    
  
  
      
   
 
 
   
   
    
  
      
  
 
 
 
   
     
 
      
     
  
    
     
 
    
   
   
  
Applicant claimed that she has made several efforts to remove incorrect 
information from her credit report. She provided no documentation of these efforts. She 
does not believe that her financial situation should result in her being denied security 
clearance eligibility. She noted that she is a Navy veteran, a single mother of three 
children, and she would never commit any financial crimes. She wrote that being denied 
security clearance eligibility would put her in a worse financial position because she would 
lose her job. There is no evidence that she has undergone any financial counseling. 
(FORM Response; Item 2) 
Policies  
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines (AG ), which became 
effective within DOD on June 8, 2017. 
When evaluating an applicant ’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
4 
 
 
    
      
    
    
 
   
 
    
  
 
 
 
       
 
  
   
 
  
   
   
   
  
  
   
 
  
    
  
 
 
    
   
 
 
    
    
 
 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline F, Financial Considerations  
The security concern for financial considerations is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one ’s means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self-control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual ’s reliability, trustworthiness , and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overe xtended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a)  inability to satisfy  deb
 ts; and  
(c) a history of not  mee ting financial obligations.  
Appli
cant had eight delinquent debts totaling about $47,000. Many of the 
delinquent accounts are several years old. The above disqualifying conditions are 
established. 
Conditions that could mitigate the financial considerations security concerns are 
provided under AG ¶ 20. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
under
 such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good judgment;   
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial  probl em were largely beyond  
the person’s control  (e.g., loss of employment, a business  downturn,  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
  
  
      
  
     
   
 
    
  
 
   
 
   
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
    
   
 
unexpected medical  emergency, a death, divorce or separation, clear  
victimization by  predatory lending practices, or identity theft),  and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;    
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to  a go
 od-faith effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  and  
(e) the individual has  a reas onable basis to  dispute the legitimacy  of the 
past-due debt which is  the cause of the problem and provides documented  
proof to substantiate the basis of  the dispute or provides evidence of  actions  
to resolve the issue.   
Appli
cant has not provided any documentation to substantiate her resolution efforts 
or the basis of her disputes concerning her debts. It is reasonable to expect Applicant to 
present documentation about the resolution of specific debts. See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 
15-03363 at 2 (App. Bd. Oct. 16, 2016). She did not provide sufficient evidence 
concerning when and why she became delinquent on these accounts, or the specifics of 
her resolution efforts, such as their timing and nature. She also has additional 
delinquencies not alleged in the SOR. Her reliance on debts no longer appearing on her 
credit report, without more, does not provide evidence of mitigation. The fact that a debt 
no longer appears on a credit report does not establish any meaningful, independent 
evidence as to the disposition of the debt. ISCR Case No. 14- 03612 (App. Bd. Aug. 15, 
2015). She therefore has not provided sufficient evidence that her financial issues are 
unlikely to recur, that she acted responsibly under the circumstances, or that she initiated 
a good-faith effort to repay or resolve her debts. AG ¶¶ 20(a), 20(b), and 20(d) do not 
apply. 
Not recognizing an account is a reasonable basis to dispute the legitimacy of a 
past-due debt. Applicant claimed that she did not recognize the accounts listed in SOR 
¶¶ 1.d and 1.g. However, she provided no documentation to substantiate the basis of her 
dispute or evidence of actions to resolve the issue, such as evidence that she disputed 
these accounts with the credit reporting agencies or the creditors. AG ¶ 20(e) does not 
apply. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
6 
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
   
  
 
    
   
  
 
 
      
   
 
  
 
  
 
   
       
       
 
  
 
 
       
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. I considered the potentially 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances 
surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under Guideline F in my whole-
person analysis. I have also considered Applicant’s military service. 
Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts about 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. I conclude Applicant did not 
mitigate the financial considerations security concern. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:  AG
 AINST APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.e:  Against  Applicant   
Subparagraph 1.f:  Against Applicant  except that the  
balance of the account was   
$12,262, not $23,564.  
Subparagraphs  1.g-1.h:  Against Applicant  
Conclusion  
It is
 not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for 
a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Benjamin R. Dorsey 
Administrative Judge 
7 