 
 
 
                                                              
                           
          
           
             
 
 
    
  
        
     
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
             
        
        
          
      
      
         
    
        
      
   
 
        
           
          
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 23-01450 
) 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Andrew H. Henderson, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Alan Edmunds, Esq., The Edmunds Law Firm 
04/03/2025 
Decision 
LOKEY ANDERSON Darlene D., Administrative Judge: 
Statement  of the Case  
On March 30, 2023; March 27, 2023; July 17, 2019; and April 23, 2013, Applicant 
submitted security clearance application s (e-QIPs). (Government Exhibits 1, 2, 3, and 
4.) On August 22, 2024 , the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS) issued Applicant a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR), detailing security concerns under Guideline B, Foreign Influence and 
Guideline E, Personal Conduct . The action was taken under Executive Order 10865, 
Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; 
DoD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the National Security 
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or 
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective within the DoD after June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR on September 10, 2024, and requested a hearing 
before an administrative judge. The case was assigned to me on November 13, 2024. 
The Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals issued a notice of hearing on January 23, 
1 
 
 
 
        
         
          
         
             
       
         
        
          
        
    
 
     
 
 
  
        
           
   
 
 
 
 
           
      
 
        
           
       
  
 
          
       
          
           
     
  
          
       
              
2025, and the hearing was convened as scheduled on February 20, 202 5. The 
Government called one witness, and offered nine exhibits, referred to as Government 
Exhibits 1 through 9, which were admitted without objection. The Applicant offered 
nineteen exhibits, referred to as Applicant’s Exhibits A through R, which were admitted 
without objection. Applicant testified on his own behalf and called two witnesses. The 
record remained open until close of business on February 25, 2025, to allow the 
Applicant and the Government to submit additional supporting documentation. The 
Government submitted five additional exhibits, referred to as Government Post -Hearing 
Exhibits 10 through 15, which were admitted into evidence. Applicant submitted one 
additional exhibit, referred to as Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit S, which was admitted 
into evidence. DOHA received the transcript of the hearing (Tr.) on March 3, 2025. 
Procedural Rulings 
 The  Government requested  I take  administrative  notice  of certain facts relating  to  
the  country of Thailand.  Department Counsel provided  a  five-page  summary of the  
facts,  supported  by nine  Government documents pertaining  to  Thailand, identified  as  
HE 1.   The  documents  provide  elaboration  and  context for the  summary.  Applicant  had  
no  objection.   (Tr. pp. 17-18.)  I took  administrative notice  of the  facts included  in the  
U.S. Government reports.   (HE-1.)  They  are  limited  to  matters of  general knowledge,  
not subject to reasonable dispute. They are set out in the Findings of Fact.  
Applicant submitted information concerning the U.S./Thailand Bilateral Relations, 
and information from the U.S. Department of State that I will also consider. (Applicant’s 
Exhibits A and Q.) 
Findings of Fact 
In response to Guideline B, Foreign Influence : Applicant admitted in part , and 
denied in part, allegation 1.a. He denied allegation 1.b. of the SOR. 
In response to Guideline E, Personal Conduct : Applicant admitted with 
clarification allegation 2.a., and denied allegations 2.b. and 2.c. of the SOR. After a 
thorough and careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the 
following findings of fact. 
Applicant is 59 years old. He has never been married and has no children. He 
has a bachelor’s degree in professional aeronautics and military training. He currently 
holds the p osition of Test Engineer with a defense contractor . He is applying for a 
security clearance in connection with his employment. He began working for his current 
employer in July 2016. (Government Exhibits 1, 2, 3, and 4.) 
Applicant joined the U.S. Navy in November 1991, and served with distinction 
until September 2011, when he retired honorably, as an E -6, First Class Petty Officer, 
with over twenty years of service. During his military service, he received a number of 
2 
 
 
 
     
      
           
       
  
 
             
        
          
           
    
 
           
             
            
              
          
         
            
        
          
             
       
               
             
          
            
             
          
         
        
 
          
          
             
         
          
  
           
          
          
                
 
 
          
      
          
awards, commendations, ribbons, badges , and medals, including 5 Navy Achievement 
Medals, 5 Good Conduct Awards, 2 Military Unit Commendations, 4 Battle “E” awards, 
2 National Defense Medals, 2 Southwest Asia Medals, and 8 Sea Deployment Medals, 
among many others. He held a security clearance throughout the course of his military 
career without incident. (Applicant’s Exhibit R, and Tr. p. 100.) 
In late 2010, while visiting Thailand as a tourist, Applicant met a citizen and 
resident of Thailand, who became his girlfriend. She was a bar girl or hostess when he 
met her. (Tr. p. 114.) After about a year, she stopped working, and Applicant has been 
financially support ing her for the past 14 years . From late 2010 to September 2016 , 
Applicant would see her every couple of days or so. (Tr. pp. 113-115.) 
From 2016 to the present, Applicant has held various positions, at different 
locations with his current employer. In 2016, Applicant moved to South Korea for the 
job and found it easier to pursue the relationship with his girlfriend. She would fly from 
Thailand to visit him in South Korea and easily stay a month or so , living with him , 
before going back to Thailand. For the past fifteen years they have been in a romantic 
relationship. She has one 9 -year-old son with a different man. Applicant’s girlfriend has 
no affiliation with any apparatus of the government of Thailand. Applicant stated that 
his girlfriend’s only job now has been to take care of her sister. He maintains regular 
daily or weekly telephonic contact with his girlfriend. Applicant normally sends her 
about $300 monthly, but whenever she asks for more money, he send s it. He gave 
her $10,000 for an anniversary gift about seven years ago. Applicant acknowledged 
that she has been able to save somewhere around $35,000 over the years since he 
began giving her money . He sends this money for her to pay her living expenses and 
so that she can save for his retirement. In September 2020, Applicant was transferred 
from South Korea to the U.S. H e now resides in the U.S., and only travels to see his 
girlfriend one time a year. He plans to move to Thailand after he retires and to 
purchase a house there. In October 2020, Applicant was considering breaking up the 
relationship, but still has not done so. Applicant last traveled to Thailand in December 
2024. (Tr. pp. 93-95, and 98, 114-117.) 
Applicant stated that he reported his relationship with his girlfriend to his 
company’s security office , via his supervisor, in compliance with security rules and 
regulations. He also stated that he filled out a Form SF-86 C and submitted it through 
his supervisor to his company security office. Applicant’s relationship is common 
knowledge to company officials and employees that know him. (Tr. p. 107.) 
Applicant testified that during Covid he sent money to two other female foreign 
nationals, who live in either in South Korea and /or Thailand. Applicant testified that 
these women worked at a restaurant that Applicant regularly frequented. They both lost 
their jobs during Covid and he sent them $200 to help them out during th e pandemic. 
(Tr. p. 96.) 
Applicant, who was raised Christian and believed in being charitable, testified 
that he helps people out when he sees that it is necessary. He admits that for about a 
year and a half, during the evening hours when he w as off work, he would go around 
3 
 
 
 
           
            
 
        
           
           
 
        
      
          
          
           
             
        
             
        
 
        
        
     
 
        
          
       
         
        
              
          
       
                
             
           
       
          
         
             
              
     
 
       
        
          
      
            
        
            
          
town and work at Asian restaurants for free. By doing so he met women and was able 
to date some of them who worked at these establishments. (Tr. pp. 97-98.) 
Due to Applicant’s extensive foreign travel to Asia and financial support provided 
to Asian women, he was a t some point, under investigation by OSI and by the FBI . 
(Government Exhibits 13 and 14) 
Information developed during Applicant’s background investigation indicates that 
Applicant also sent money to other Asian female foreign nationals in Thailand and/or 
South Korea that he met in bars. He would occasionally go on dates and have sex with 
these “side girls” without his girlfriend’s knowledge. (Tr. pp. 95 -96.) A witness who 
knows and has worked with the Applicant also testified that Applicant admitted to him 
that he would have sex with various females he met during some of his trips to Asia. 
Applicant denies sexual relations with any of these women . (Tr. pp. 86 -88, and 106, 
121-122, and Government Exhibits 10 , 11, 12, 13, and 14.) This conduct is not alleged 
in the SOR. 
In August 2020, Applicant’s personnel manager informed him that his security 
clearance and access to classified information was suspended. (Government Exhibits 7 
and 9, and Tr. pp. 100-101.) 
Applicant’s background investigation also disclosed several incidents of 
inappropriate behavior that occurred while employed as a civilian in the defense 
industry. Of particular concern is an incident that occurred in about April 2016, during a 
6-month period of employment with a previous defense contractor. Applicant brought a 
target practice silhouette, with bullet holes in it, into the workplace and hung it on the 
office wall where it was visible to all. Names of coworkers were written on the silhouette 
as well as threats.  When he was told to take it down, he laughed and said it was a joke. 
He was counseled for his actions. He also brought a sword to work and took it out of its 
case in front of his coworkers. He was told to take it out of the workplace and to never 
bring it back. Applicant said he was just trying to demonstrate the proper use of the 
sword. Applicant was not well -liked and acted unprofessionally in the workplace. In 
2016, Applicant was terminated from this employment after receiving a reprimand for a 
conflict with a coworker. A woman who worked for a subcontractor filed a complaint 
against the Applicant claiming that he was harassing her. At this point, it was clear that 
Applicant had pushed the limits , and his company wanted to fire him . Applicant claims 
that he was released from the company after a reprimand. The company claims that he 
was terminated. (Government Exhibits 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, and Tr. pp. 101-105.) 
Sometime in 2019 , while working for his current employer, Applicant was 
involved in a verbal altercation with a co -worker that created a hostile work 
environment. Applicant was accused of yelling and screaming at the coworker and was 
very disrespectful. A witness to the argument indicates that Applicant is opinionated 
and vocal. He tends to speak without a filter, at times saying things that cross over into 
being highly inappropriate. Nothing came of this verbal altercation. (Tr. pp. 105-106, 
and Government Exhibits 5 and 10. ) Applicant admitted that he had a personality 
conflict with the co -worker but denied any misconduct . (Tr. p. 107 -108.) Applicant 
4 
 
 
 
            
         
  
 
          
         
  
     
          
           
         
        
        
       
        
          
    
 
          
        
           
         
       
         
    
 
      
       
    
 
        
         
        
          
          
       
      
 
          
        
   
     
       
       
        
            
         
stated that he received an above normal pay raise, about a year and a half ago, and a 
Bravo award for excellent work performance. (Tr. p. 91.) He has had no disciplinary 
issues during his current employment. 
Allegation 2 .c., of the SOR is found for the Applicant. The Government 
conceded and provided no evidence to support the allegation. (Tr. p. 127.) 
Applicant’s senior manager who has held a security clearance for over twenty 
years, testified and confirmed that Applicant told him that he was having a romantic 
relationship with a woman in Thailand, and that he was sending money to her in 
Thailand. Applicant’s manager stated that he believed the relationship was going on 
well before Applicant started working for their company. He further testified that the 
company is aware that it is very common for individuals working overseas to have 
relationships with “local women” and it is not a concern or a red flag. He further stated 
that Applicant is an outstanding employee , who has exceeded standards and goes 
above and beyond expectations with the company. (Tr. pp. 67 -68.) He recommends 
Applicant for a security clearance. 
A senior principal field engineer, who worked with the Applicant in Korea, on the 
same projects, testified that Applicant was passionate about his work and was a true 
professional. He and his wife had dinner with the Applicant and his girlfriend on one 
occasion. He is and has been aware of Applicant’s romantic relationship with his 
girlfriend, and the fact that he provides her with financial support. He is also aware of 
other foreign contacts Applicant has had with other females, be it sexual or otherwise. 
(Tr. pp 75-87.) He recommends Applicant for a security clearance. 
Applicants Year -End Reviews for 2021, 2022, and 2023, are all favorable. 
Applicant has consistently displayed a positive attitude and an excellent work ethic . 
(Applicant Exhibits C, D, and E.) 
Letters of reference from Applicant’s supervisor, and managers who currently or 
in the past have worked with the Applicant, and a n intern Applicant mentored, all 
testified that Applicant has a strong work ethic, is professional, and has high morals, 
values, honestly and integrity. His dedication to the mission is exemplary , and his work 
has consistently been of the highest quality. He has shown unwavering trust and 
responsibility. Collectively, t hey recommend Applicant for a security clearance. 
(Applicant’s Exhibits G, H, I, and J.) 
In assessing the heightened risk created as a result of Applicant holding a 
security clearance, the Applicant’s ties to a hostile country are important. However, 
even countries friendly to the United States have attempted to gain unauthorized access 
to classified information. Under the particular facts of this case, I have taken 
administrative notice of the information provided concerning the Country of Thailand. 
Thailand is a constitutional monarchy and a parliamentary democracy. The basic 
government structure is composed of the executive, legislature, and judiciary branch. 
The government is headed by a prime minister. Thailand and the U.S. have long been 
close allies and diplomatic partners. Since World War II, the U.S. and Thailand have 
5 
 
 
 
      
       
       
     
      
        
         
   
     
        
        
          
    
          
          
            
          
      
  
        
      
       
      
       
         
        
          
        
     
       
        
                
 
 
 
 
        
        
       
         
   
 
          
    
           
     
         
significantly expanded diplomatic, security, and commercial relations and people -to-
people ties. The U.S./Thailand alliance benefits both our nations and supports peace 
and prosperity in the Indo -Pacific. This partnership is bilateral and regional in scope. It 
is geared towards promoting regional security and prosperity that includes infectious 
disease prevention treatment and research, combatting emerging pandemic threats, 
humanitarian assistance for displaced persons, and the promotion of democracy and 
human rights, among many other interests. Through a five years Strategic Partnership 
Agreement signed August 2021, USAID programs assist Thailand in trilateral initiatives 
that include health, environment, economic and social sector development, and human 
resources development. Since becoming a member of the United Nations in 1946, 
Thailand has played an active role in many UN -related activities, most notably in 
peacebuilding and peacekeeping operations. The U.S. and Thailand have longstanding 
relationships diplomatically, economically, and in security dimensions. Economically, 
Thailand is the 18 th largest trading partner with the US. and they collaborate in ma ny 
ways. In a 2023 Report to Congress, the US. -China Economic and Security Review 
Commission reported that Thailand is a member of the China -led Asia Pacific Space 
Cooperation Organization (APSCO), is a recipient of Chinese Arms, and is one of the 
top five most frequent military diplomatic partners of the Chinese People’s Liberation 
Army (PLA) with whom they have conducted military exercises.  Chinese companies are 
expanding their presence in Thailand and are circumventing Thai law to secur e 
ownership of local media outlets in an effort to shape the media environment in 
Thailand. Significant human rights issues reported in 2023 include credible reports of 
arbitrary arrest and detention, political interference in the judiciary, political prisoners, 
arbitrary and unlawful interference with privacy; serious restrictions on freedom of 
expression and media and the use of criminal libel laws; serious restrictions on internet 
freedom; extensive gender -based violence including domestic or intimate partner 
violence and sexual violence; among others. The U.S. Department of State has issued 
a travel advisory for the Yala, Pattani, Narathiwat, and Songkhla Provinces: periodic 
violence directed mostly at Tha i Government interests by a domestic insurgency 
continues to affect these southernmost provinces. U.S. citizens are at risk of death or 
injury due to the possibility of indiscriminate attacks in public places. (Applicant’s 
Exhibits A and Q, and Government’s HE-1.) 
Policies 
When evaluating an Applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
Applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The 
administrative judge’s over arching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and 
commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a ), the entire process is a conscientious 
6 
 
 
 
      
      
    
 
      
    
       
       
 
 
        
          
       
       
    
 
            
         
     
             
     
        
        
        
  
 
       
            
       
   
 
 
 
 
 
          
  
 
scrutiny of a number o f variables known as the whole -person concept. The 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical , and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the “Applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the Applicant or proven by Department Counsel , and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable clearance decision.” 
A person who applies for access to classified information seeks to enter into a 
fiduciary relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk the Applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect, or 
safeguard classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally 
permissible extrapolation as to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of 
classified information. 
Section 7 of Executive Order (EO) 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall 
be “in terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the 
loyalty of the Applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple 
prerequisites for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis 
Guideline B, Foreign Influence  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Foreign Influence is set out in 
AG ¶ 6: 
Foreign  contacts and  interests,  including, but not limited  to,  business,  
financial,  and  property interests, are  a  national security concern  if they  
result in divided  allegiance.  They  may also  be  a  national security concern  
if they create  circumstances in which  the  individual may be manipulated or  
induced  to  help a  foreign  person, group, organization, or government in a  
way inconsistent with  U.S. interests or otherwise made  vulnerable to  
pressure or coercion  by any foreign  interest. Assessment  of foreign  
contacts and  interests  should consider the  country  in which  the  foreign  
7 
 
 
 
 
    
    
 
 
 
 
    
        
 
 
            
        
        
         
           
         
           
           
      
 
                
          
           
          
          
          
           
         
        
         
   
 
 
 
contact or interest  is located, including, but not limited  to, considerations  
such  as whether it is known to  target U.S.  citizens to  obtain classified  or  
sensitive information or is associated with  a risk of terrorism.  
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 7. Three are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) contact,  regardless  of method, with  a  foreign  family member, business  
or professional associate, friend, or other person  who  is a  citizen  of or  
resident  in  a  foreign  country  if that  contact creates  a  heightened  risk of  
foreign  exploitation, inducement,  manipulation, pressure, or coercion; and  
(b) connections to  a  foreign  person, group,  government,  or country that  
create  a  potential conflict of interest  between  the  individual's obligation  to  
protect  classified  or  sensitive  information  or technology and  the  
individual's desire  to  help a  foreign  person, group, or country by providing  
that information or technology; and  
(f) substantial business, financial, or property interests in a foreign country, 
or in any foreign owned or foreign -operated business that could subject 
the individual to a heightened risk of foreign influence or exploitation or 
personal conflict of interest. 
Applicant and his Thai girlfriend have been in a long -term relationship for about 
fifteen years. For most of the relationship, Applicant has provided her with financial 
support, although the frequency and amount has varied. Applicant’s relationship is well 
known and was never hidden . Now that Applicant is living and working in the U.S. he 
only travels to Thailand to see her one time a year. When the relationship started, he 
reported it to his employer, and the fact that he was financially supporting her . 
Applicant also admitted to being in contact with other women, who are citizens of either 
Thailand or South Korea , that he occasionally send s money to . These contacts are 
sporadic, and not close or continuous like his contact with his girlfriend. 
Applicant served this country for over 20 years in the U.S. Navy . He was highly 
decorated and retired as Petty Officer. He has shown a deep and long -standing loyalty 
to the United States. Based upon the evidence presented, the se foreign contacts and 
unique relationships do not pose a threat or negatively influence Applicant’s decision 
making, impacting the interests and security of the United States. Applicant’s contact 
with th ese individuals although regular, are infrequent, and not out of the ordinary. 
These limited contacts pose no undue security risk. Under the circumstances here, the 
risk-benefit analysis is applicable, and th ese contacts do not pose a significant security 
risk to the U.S. government. None of these contacts can manipulate, induce, or 
influence the Applicant to help a foreign person or government in a way that is 
inconsistent with the U.S. interests. 
8 
 
 
 
           
  
 
 
 
 
 
        
  
 
       
          
            
             
         
            
            
        
           
      
          
     
 
 
       
  
 
 
AG ¶ 8 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. I considered all 
of the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 8 including: 
(a) the  nature  of the  relationships with  foreign  persons, the  country in  
which  these  persons are located,  or the  positions or activities of those  
persons in that country are such  that it is unlikely the  individual will  be  
placed  in a  position  of having  to  choose  between  the  interests of a  foreign  
individual, group, organization, or government and  the  interests  of the  
United States;  
(b) there is no  conflict of interest,  either because  the  individual’s sense  of  
loyalty or obligation  to  the  foreign  person,  or allegiance  to  the  group,  
government,  or country is so  minimal, or the  individual has such  deep  and  
longstanding  relationships and  loyalties in the  United  States, that the  
individual can  be  expected  to  resolve any conflict of interest in favor of the  
U.S. interest;    
(c)  contact or communication  with  foreign  citizens is so  casual and  
infrequent that there is  little likelihood  that it could create  a  risk for foreign  
influence or exploitation; and  
(e) the individual has promptly complied with existing agency requirements 
regarding the reporting of contacts, requests, or threats from persons, 
groups, or organizations from a foreign country. 
In this case, Applicant’s foreign contacts do not present a security risk to the U.S. 
government. These foreign contacts, which include his girlfriend, and a few other 
women from Thailand and South Korea all appear to be limited, casual, and infrequent, 
and are not likely to result in a situation that may create divided loyalties or allegiance. 
Applicant is working for a U.S. defense contractor and is committed to its mission. He 
has shown a deep and longstanding relationship with or loyalties to , the United States. 
All foreign contact s he has made have been promptly report ed to his company 
supervisor and security officer , and he plans to c ontinue to follow all reporting 
requirements. He has been open, honest, and candid, about these relationships with 
the Government during the entire security clearance process. Under the circumstances, 
his foreign contacts do not present a risk and mitigation under AG ¶ 8(a), 8(b), 8(c), and 
8(e) has been established. 
Guideline E, Personal Conduct  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Personal Conduct is set out in 
AG ¶ 15: 
9 
 Conduct involving  questionable  judgment, lack  of  candor,  dishonesty,  or  
unwillingness  to  comply with  rules and  regulations  can  raise  questions about  an  
individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and  ability to protect classified  information.  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
   
     
  
 
 
      
  
 
 
      
          
    
   
     
           
     
             
      
       
    
(c)  credible  adverse information  in several adjudicative issue  areas  that is  
not sufficient for an  adverse determination  under any other single  
guideline, but  which  when  considered  as  a  whole, supports a  whole-
person  assessment  of questionable  judgment,  untrustworthiness,  
unreliability, lack of candor, unwillingness  to  comply with  rules and  
regulations,  or other characteristics  indicating  that  the  individual may not  
properly safeguard classified or sensitive information;  
(d) credible  adverse information  that is not  explicitly covered  under any  
other guideline  and  may  not  be  sufficient by itself for an  adverse  
determination, but which, when  combined  with  all  available  information,  
supports a  whole-person  assessment of questionable judgment,  
untrustworthiness, unreliability, lack of candor, unwillingness to  comply  
with  rules and  regulations, or other characteristics indicating  that the  
individual may not properly safeguard classified  or sensitive information.  
This includes, but is not limited to, consideration of:   
(2) any disruptive, violent,  or other inappropriate  behavior;  and  
(e) personal conduct, or concealment of information about one’s conduct, 
that creates a vulnerability to exploitation, manipulation, or duress by a 
foreign intelligence entity or other individual or group. Such conduct 
includes: 
(1) engaging in activities which, if known, could affect the person’s  
personal, professional, or community standing; and  
The guideline at AG ¶ 17 contains seven conditions that could mitigate security 
concerns. One of the mitigating conditions is potentially applicable: 
(d) the  individual has acknowledged  the  behavior and  obtained  counseling  
to  change  the  behavior or taken  other positive steps to  alleviate  the  
stressors, circumstances, or  factors that  contributed  to  untrustworthy, 
unreliable, or other inappropriate  behavior, and  such  behavior is unlikely  
to recur.  
Applicant denies the inappropriate behavior or misconduct alleged under 
Guideline E. He admits th at the underlying conduct occurred, but not that his behavior 
was inappropriate. Admittedly, the facts show that Applicant has at times been a 
difficult person to deal with, and that he does not always get along with everyone, but he 
does not pose a security risk. Applicant’s inappropriate behavior or personality conflict 
occurred in 2016, over nine years ago. There has been no recent misbehavior of the 
sort, and he has numerous favorable recommendations from company superiors that 
consider him to be an outstanding employee. Based upon the record of evidence, I find 
that Applicant has demonstrated reasonable and responsible judgment and has 
properly maintained and protected classified information. Accordingly, this guideline is 
found for the Applicant. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
          
   
         
    
 
 
       
   
  
 
       
 
             
       
      
          
               
 
         
        
         
  
 
 
 
 
       
  
 
  
 
     
 
   
 
    
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole -person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
Applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the Applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of  
rehabilitation  and  other permanent  behavioral changes;  (7) the  motivation  
for the  conduct;  (8) the  potential  for pressure, coercion,  exploitation, or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood  of continuation  or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2( c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a security 
clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guidelines B and E in my whole-person analysis. Some of the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) were 
addressed under those guidelines, but some warrant additional comment. Under the 
particular facts of this case, Applicant’s connections with Thailand do not pose a 
significant risk to the U.S. government or raise to the level of being a risk to national 
security. 
Overall, the record eviden ce leaves me with out questions or doubts as to 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance . For all these reasons, I 
conclude Applicant has mitigated the Foreign Influence and Personal Conduct security 
concerns. 
Formal Findings 
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by ¶ E3.1.25 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  B:  FOR  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a.  and  1.b.  For  Applicant  
Paragraph  2, Guideline E:  FOR APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 2.a. through 2.c. For Applicant  
11 
 
 
 
 
 
         
       
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion 
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant national security eligibility 
and a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Darlene Lokey Anderson 
Administrative Judge 
12 