 
 
 
 
                                                              
     
                      DEPARTMENT  OF DEFENSE  
   DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS        
           
             
 
 
 
 
     
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
     
       
  
 
 
      
      
      
      
          
          
     
 
       
     
}IB~l,►. 
ft 0 
~ ~ fiit',7r.eJ .. ,:$ 
1 
______________ 
______________ 
In  the  matter of:   )  
        )  
   )  ISCR Case No.  23-00303  
   )  
Applicant for Security Clearance   )  
 
Appearances  
For Government: Brian Farrell, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Alan Edmunds, Esq. 
02/18/2025 
Decision  
Hyams, Ross D., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant mitigated the alcohol consumption , drug involvement and substance 
misuse, and criminal conduct security concerns. E ligibility for access to classified 
information is granted. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on June 1, 2022. On 
September 12, 2023, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency Consolidated 
Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant 
detailing security concerns under Guideline G (alcohol consumption), Guideline H (drug 
involvement and substance misuse), and Guideline J (criminal conduct) . Applicant 
responded to the SOR on August 11, 2023, and requested a hearing before an 
administrative judge. The case was assigned to me on June 10, 2024. 
The hearing was convened as scheduled on October 30 , 2024. Department 
Counsel submitted Government Exhibits (GE) 1 -8, which were admitted in evidence 
1 
 
 
 
 
       
  
 
 
         
        
    
 
          
     
       
          
        
   
 
     
 
         
      
         
      
                 
     
 
           
             
         
            
           
              
       
       
      
    
  
           
             
        
       
          
  
 
           
       
         
without objection . Applicant’s Exhibits (AE) A -M were admitted in evidence without 
objection. 
Findings of Fact   
In his answer, Applicant admitted all SOR allegation s with ex planation. His 
admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. After revi ew of the pleadings , 
testimony, and evidence submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact. 
Applicant is 38 years old. He graduated high school in 2007 and has almost 
completed his bachelor’s degree. He has worked for his current employer for about a year 
as an energy analyst. He was married fr om 2015-2017 and has no children. He served 
on active duty in the Navy from 2008-2018. In 2018, he wa s separated and given a 
general discharge under honorable conditions. While in the Navy, he received specialized 
training and was deployed twice. (Tr. 15-18; GE 1, 2; AE F) 
The SOR alleged the following concerns under Guideline G: 
SOR ¶ 1.a alleged Applicant consumed alcohol in excess from 2009 -2021. He 
reported that when he was younger, he regularly drank socially, as it was part of the Navy 
culture, and would drink to intoxication once a month. He no longer associates with any 
of the people who were his social drinking friends. He rarely consumes alcohol now. His 
last drink was a glass of champagne at a wedding in 2024 and he did not drink at all for 
about five months prior. He no longer drinks to intoxication. (Tr. 19-88; GE 3) 
SOR ¶ 1.b alleged i n J uly 2021 Applicant was arrested for driving under the 
influence (DUI), pled no contest, and was found guilty. He served 12 months of probation. 
This allegation is also cross alleged under Guideline J in SOR ¶ 3.a. He reported that he 
drank with friends at a kickball game and then attempted to drive home, which was a 
mistake. He fell asleep at a red light going home. As part of his sentence, he attended a 
12-week course by the State A Safety Council and attended 8-16 hours of a victim impact 
panel. He reported that the stories from the panel scared him into making changes in his 
life. He also attended a three-day substance abuse course prior to sentencing in his case. 
He successfully completed probation and has no prohibition on his driver’s license. (Tr. 
19-88; GE 7, 8; AE G, H, I) 
SOR ¶ 1.c alleged in 2018, while serving in the Navy, Applicant plead guilty to DUI 
and fleeing the scene of an accident in August 2017. He was sentenced to 30 days 
confinement, reduction in rank, and a pay forfeiture for one month. This allegation is also 
cross alleged under Guideline J in SOR ¶ 3.a. He reported that he was convicted of UCMJ 
articles 111 and 134. He reported he was on probation for about a year after , and then 
was administratively separated from the Navy. (Tr. 19-84; GE 3, 4, 6; AE A, B) 
SOR ¶ 1.d alleged in August 2017, Applicant was arrested and indicted in Country 
A for assault on a police officer, resisting arrest, criminal mischief, DUI, reckless driving, 
and disorderly conduct. These charges were dismissed because the case was 
2 
 
 
 
 
         
       
             
            
         
       
      
 
          
             
           
          
       
 
           
        
  
 
           
           
            
         
        
       
        
             
          
 
        
   
               
           
            
         
      
     
 
        
            
        
     
     
         
  
 
  
prosecuted by the Navy, as alleged i n SOR ¶ 1.c. This allegation is also cross alleged 
under Guideline J in SOR ¶ 3.a. Applicant admitted drinking and driving, moving his car, 
and leaving the scene. He moved his car to a parking lot off the street and damaged a 
potted plant. A report stated that he ran from police, jumped a fence, and kicked them. 
He stated that his actions were stupid and due to intoxication. He asserted that he did not 
touch or assault the police officer , and the related charges were dismissed. (Tr. 19-38; 
GE 3, 4, 6; AE A, B) 
SOR ¶ 1.e alleged in 2011, Applicant was ordered by the Navy to attend alcohol 
abuse counseling. In 2009, He was found to be intoxicated in the barracks, as alleged in 
SOR ¶ 1.f. He was ordered to take the training in 2009. However, because his unit was 
busy and he was deployed after the incident, he did not attend the counseling until 2011. 
The Prevent Course was a two-week program put on by the Navy (Tr. 19-88) 
SOR ¶ 1.f alleged in 2009 Applicant violated a standing order when he returned to 
the barracks while intoxicated . He forfeited pay for two months and was placed on 30 
days restriction. Applicant admitted the allegation. (Tr. 19-38; GE 6) 
Applicant was 21 years old in 2009 and admits he was irresponsible with alcohol. 
His first substance abuse counseling was in 2011, and he attended counseling again after 
his arrest in 2021. He stated that t he drinking culture in the Navy contributed to his 
irresponsible alcohol use. He has since left the Navy, moved to State B, and changed his 
life to be healthier and more mature . He has a better job that he appreciates and is 
surrounded by friends and colleagues who are professionals. After his 2017 arrest, he 
completely abstained from alcohol for nine months . He had been infrequently drinking 
after getting out of the Navy, but when the COVID -19 lockdowns took place in 2020, he 
drank with friends while at home in State A. (Tr. 19-91; AE G, H)   
After Applicant’s arrest in July 2021, he abstained from alcohol until May 2024. He 
now infrequently drinks any alcohol, and never drinks to intoxication . He does not have 
more than one or two alcohol drinks in total at a time. He reported having alcohol on two 
occasions in 2024. His last instance of intoxication was in 2021 , when he was arrested. 
He realized he had a problem with alcohol in his youth and is careful with any use of 
alcohol now. He has never been diagnosed as an alcoholic or been told to completely 
abstain from alcohol. He agreed that he was a risk when he was younger but has moved 
beyond that phase of his life. (Tr. 19-91; AE G, H) 
Since 2021, Applicant changed his life and is no longer involved in socializing with 
alcohol. His routine and lifestyle have greatly improved as he moved and took on more 
serious jobs and friends. He works out every morning and participates in sporting 
activities as his hobby. He is active and exercises often. His friends share his active and 
healthy lifestyle. He has learned from his mistakes. After his arrest in 2021, he asked his 
close friends and family members to help keep him accountable in living a healthy 
lifestyle. (Tr. 38-84)  
The SOR alleged the following under Guideline H: 
3 
 
 
 
 
          
      
          
             
          
            
       
        
 
        
         
          
         
           
       
       
           
       
 
             
       
           
            
         
       
 
         
  
         
        
  
 
  
    
     
       
       
 
 
     
        
      
         
 
SOR ¶¶ 2.a and 2.b alleged Applicant purchased and used marijuana from 
September 2018 to September 2021. This allegation is also cross alleged under Guideline 
J in SOR ¶ 3.b. Applicant stated he was drug tested about three times a year while in the 
Navy. He did not use marijuana while he was in the Navy but tried it the day after he was 
discharged from service. He purchased from a dispensary in State C. He claimed at the 
time he was not aware of the distinction between state and federal law, and thought it 
was permissible because it was legal in State C. He reported that he used it once or twice 
a year during this time frame, and never more than ten times total. (Tr. 19-38; GE 1, 3) 
SOR ¶ 2.c alleged Applicant used marijuana from September 2020 to September 
2021 while granted access to classified information or holding a sensitive position. He 
reported the last time he used marijuana was at a music festival in June 2021. He has no 
future intent to use marijuana and did not enjoy the feeling. In his background interview 
with a government investigator, he was told that despite it being legal in some states and 
available for purchase to the public, it is illegal under federal law and prohibited for 
clearance holders. Applicant asserted that he now understands the prohibition under 
federal law and will not purchase or use it again. He states the fact it is legal and widely 
available in some states was confusing for him. (Tr. 38-84; GE 1, 3, 5) 
SOR ¶ 2.d alleged Applicant was arrested in July 2021 in State A and charged with 
possession of THC. This allegation is also cross alleged under Guideline J in SOR ¶ 3.b. 
When Applicant was arrested for DUI, an old vape pen with THC oil was found deep in 
the console of his car. He claimed it had been in there unused for years . The assistant 
state attorney reviewed Applicant’s case and found the marijuana charge was not suitable 
for prosecution, and the charge was dismissed. (Tr. 19-88; GE 7, 8; AE C) 
Applicant signed a statement of intent to not abuse alcohol or use illegal drugs 
ever again. He submitted two character letters, which state he is an excellent and skilled 
employee who is reliable, and professional. He submitted his last performance review 
which showed that his performance exceeded expectations. He has been promoted twice 
at work since leaving the Navy. (AE D, E, K, L, M) 
Policies  
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG), which became 
effective on June 8, 2017. 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
4 
 
 
 
 
          
      
         
          
     
       
         
 
 
      
    
   
 
       
      
       
      
      
 
          
       
    
              
      
       
         
 
 
         
           
      
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
         
 
 
        
   
 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2 I, 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reli able 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified inform ation. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline  G, Alcohol Consumption  
AG ¶ 21 details the personal conduct security concern: 
Excessive alcohol consumption often leads to the exercise of questionable 
judgment or the failure to control impulses, and can raise questions about 
an individual’s reliability and trustworthiness. 
I have considered the disqualifying conditions for alcohol consumption under AG 
¶ 22 and the following are applicable: 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
 
 
 
   
        
          
            
           
        
           
       
           
         
       
        
  
 
 
    
 
(a)  alcohol-related incidents away from work, such as driving while under  
the  influence, fighting, child  or spouse  abuse, disturbing  the  peace, or other  
incidents of concern, regardless of the frequency of the individual’s alcohol 
use  or whether the  individual has been  diagnosed  with  alcohol use  disorder; 
and  
(c)  habitual or binge  consumption  of alcohol to  the  point  of impaired  
judgment,  regardless of whether the  individual is diagnosed  with  alcohol  
use disorder.  
I have considered the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 23. The following are 
potentially applicable: 
(a)  so much time has passed, or the behavior was so infrequent,  or it  
happened  under such  unusual circumstances that it is unlikely to  recur or  
does  not cast  doubt  on  the  individual’s  current  reliability, trustworthiness, or  
judgment;  and   
(b) the  individual acknowledges  his or her pattern  of  maladaptive  alcohol  
use, provides  evidence  of actions taken  to  overcome  this problem,  and  has  
demonstrated  a  clear and  established  pattern  of modified  consumption  or 
abstinence in accordance with  treatment recommendations.   
AG ¶¶ 23(a) and (b) apply. Applicant was irresponsible with alcohol when he was 
younger. He last intoxication and incident was in 2021, when he made a mistake to drive 
home after drinking at a kickball game . Afterwards, he realized he had to abstain from 
alcohol and live a healthier and more serious lifestyle . The counseling and education he 
attended as part of his sentence helped him better understand the severity and the 
changes he had to make. He has completely changed his relationship with alcohol and 
adopted a healthy lifestyle. He has established a professional focus and better friendships 
who hold him accountable. He provided sufficient evidence to find that enough time has 
passed, the behavior is unlikely to recur, and he has taken satisfactory actions to 
overcome his maladaptive use of alcohol and demonstrated a clear pattern of modified 
consumption. The incidents no longer cast doubt on his reliability, trustworthiness, and 
judgment. The alcohol consumption security concerns are mitigated. 
Guideline H, Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse  
AG ¶ 24 expresses the security concern regarding drug involvement: 
The  illegal use  of controlled  substances,  to  include  the  misuse  of  
prescription  drugs, and  the  use  of other substances that can  cause  physical  
or mental impairment  or are used  in a  manner inconsistent with  their  
intended  use  can  raise  questions about  an  individual’s reliability and  
trustworthiness, both  because  such  behavior may lead  to  physical or  
psychological impairment and  because  it raises questions about a  person’s  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
      
       
  
 
       
  
 
 
 
 
     
        
              
      
        
        
    
 
         
 
 
 
 
         
          
           
        
           
ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations. Controlled 
substance means any “controlled substance” as defined in 21 U.S.C 802. 
Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in this guideline to describe 
any of the behaviors listed above. 
I have considered the disqualifying conditions for drug involvement under AG ¶ 25 
and the following are applicable: 
(a)  any substance  misuse  (see above  definition);  
(c)  illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation, processing,  
manufacture, purchase, sale, or distribution; or possession of drug  paraphernalia;  
and  
(f)  any  illegal drug  use  while  granted  access to  classified  information  or 
holding a sensitive position.  
The Controlled Substances Act makes it illegal under federal law to manufacture, 
possess, or distribute certain drugs (Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. § 801, et seq. 
See § 844). All controlled substances are classified into five schedules, based on their 
accepted medical uses, their potential for abuse, and their psychological and physical 
effects on the body. §§811, 812. Marijuana is classified as a Schedule I controlled 
substance, under §812(c), based on its high potential for abuse, no accepted medical 
use, and no accepted safety for use in medically supervised treatment. 
I have considered the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 26. The following are 
potentially applicable: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or happened  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur or does  not cast  doubt  
on  the  individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  judgment;  and   
(b) the  individual acknowledges his or her drug  involvement and  substance  
misuse,  provides evidence  of actions taken  to  overcome  this problem, and  
has established  a  pattern of  abstinence, including, but not limited  to: (1)  
disassociation  from  drug-using  associates and  contacts; (2) changing  or  
avoiding  the  environment where  drugs  were used;  and  (3) providing  a  
signed  statement of intent to  abstain from  all  drug  involvement and  
substance  misuse, acknowledging  that any future involvement is grounds  
for revocation  of national security eligibility.  
AG ¶¶ 26(a) and 26(b) apply. Applicant had limited marijuana use over a three-
year period. From about September 2020 on he held a security clearance. He credibly 
stated that he was confused by the legality of marijuana under state laws and did not 
understand the federal prohibition. He was educated by his background investigator in 
October 2022. At that point, he had not used marijuana since June 2021, and has no 
7 
 
 
 
 
       
 
           
           
            
          
 
 
    
 
     
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
 
 
 
 
        
          
        
         
       
future intent to use it. These incidents occurred long ago under circumstances unlikely to 
recur, and it does not cast doubt on his current reliability, trustworthiness, and judgment. 
There is sufficient evidence to find he took action to overcome the problem and establish 
a pattern of abstinence . He moved, has better friendships now, and lives a healthier 
lifestyle. He signed a statement of intent to abstain from all drug involvement . The drug 
involvement and substance misuse security concerns are mitigated. 
Guideline J, Criminal Conduct  
AG ¶ 30 expresses the security concern for criminal conduct: 
Criminal activity creates doubt about a person's judgment, reliability, and 
trustworthiness. By its very nature, it calls into question a person's ability or 
willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations. 
The  criminal conduct security concerns are cross alleged  from  Guidelines  G  and  
H. I have  considered  the  disqualifying  under AG ¶  31  and  the  following  are  applicable  in  
this case:   
(a) a  pattern of minor offenses, any one  of  which  on  its own  would be  
unlikely to  affect  a  national security  eligibility decision,  but which in  
combination  cast doubt on  the  individual's judgment,  reliability,  or 
trustworthiness;  and   
(b) evidence  (including, but not limited  to, a  credible  allegation, an  
admission, and  matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of  
whether the individual  was formally charged,  prosecuted, or convicted.  
I have considered the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 32. The following are 
potentially applicable: 
(a) so  much  time  has elapsed  since  the  criminal behavior happened,  or it 
happened under such  unusual circumstances, that it is unlikely to recur and  
does  not cast  doubt  on  the  individual's reliability, trustworthiness, or good  
judgment; and   
(d) there is evidence of successful rehabilitation; including, but not limited to,  
the  passage  of time  without recurrence  of criminal activity, restitution,  
compliance  with  the  terms of parole  or probation, job  training  or higher 
education,  good  employment  record, or constructive  community involvement.  
AG ¶¶ 32(a) and (d) apply. Applicant’s last alcohol-related arrest was in July 2021, 
and he has changed his relationship with alcohol, and has abstained from alcohol for long 
periods. Applicant last used marijuana in June 2021, and his use was limited over a three-
year period. He mistakenly thought that since it was legal under state law, it was 
permissible. He now understands the federal law prohibition. He learned from the 
8 
 
 
 
 
        
        
           
          
        
      
   
 
 
         
      
         
    
 
 
      
       
         
       
      
          
 
 
     
     
       
 
 
 
        
       
 
   
 
     
  
substance abuse cou nseling and education he attended as part of his sentence . He 
provided sufficient evidence to find that enough time has passed, the behavior is unlikely 
to recur, and these incidents no longer cast doubt on his reliability, trustworthiness, and 
judgment. He provided sufficient evidence to find his lifestyle and habits have changed 
and he is rehabilitated. There has been sufficient passage of time, he successfully 
completed probation, and has an excellent record of employment. The criminal conduct 
security concerns are mitigated. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole -person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the Applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  
and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct;  
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2( c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. I considered the potentially 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances 
surrounding this case. I considered his character letters and performance evaluation. I 
have incorporated my comments under Guideline s G, H, and J in my whole -person 
analysis. 
Overall, the record evidence leaves me with out questions or d oubts as to 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. I conclude that Applicant has 
mitigated the alcohol consumption, drug involvement and substance misuse, and criminal 
conduct security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  G:   FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a-1.f:  For Applicant 
9 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
   
 
    
 
 
         
      
     
 
 
 
 
 
____________________________ 
Paragraph  2, Guideline  H:   FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  2.a-2.d: For  Applicant  
Paragraph  3 , Guideline  J: FOR  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  3 .a-3.b:  For Applicant 
Conclusion  
It is clearly consistent with the national i nterest to grant Applicant a security 
clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Ross D. Hyams 
Administrative Judge 
10 