 
 
                                         
 
 
         
           
             
 
   
  
                  
   
    
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
         
        
   
 
 
 
 
      
    
     
      
    
   
    
         
  
         
 
 
          
        
       
        
___________ 
___________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
[Name Redacted] ) ISCR Case No. 23-01393 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Brian Farrell, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
02/24/2025 
Decision 
HOGAN, Erin C., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to resolve several delinquent accounts and failed to file her federal 
and state income tax returns for tax years 2021 and 2022. The security concerns raised 
under Guideline F, Financial C onsiderations, are not mitigated. Eligibility for access to 
classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case 
On October 10, 2022 , Applicant completed and signed an Electronic 
Questionnaires for Investigations Processing (e-QIP). (Government Exhibit (GE) 1) On 
August 2, 2023 , the Department of Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS) issued a statement of reasons (SOR) 
to Applicant under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified 
Information within Industry (February 20, 1960); DOD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial 
Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (Directive) (January 2, 1992 ), as 
amended; and Security Executive Agent Directive 4, establishing in Appendix A the 
National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to 
Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Positi on (AGs), effective June 8, 
2017. 
The SOR detailed reasons why the D CSA CAS did not find under the Directive 
that it is clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant or continue a 
security clearance for Applicant and recommended referral to an administrative judge to 
determine whether a clearance should be gr anted or denied. Specifically, the SOR set 
1 
 
 
                                         
 
      
         
  
         
       
         
          
    
 
        
        
            
         
          
    
 
        
   
 
 
         
          
   
 
       
        
 
 
            
        
 
 
          
   
 
 
       
     
 
         
      
        
            
          
    
forth security concerns arising under Guideline F, Financial Considerations. On August 
14, 2023 , Applicant responded to the SOR and requested a hearing before an 
administrative judge. On September 19, 2023 , Department Counsel was ready to 
proceed. The case was assigned to me on April 2, 2024 . The hearing was originally 
scheduled for May 23, 2024, but was continued because Applicant was deployed 
overseas for several month s. On October 9, 2024, D OHA issued a notice of hearing, 
setting the hearing for November 19, 2024. The hearing was held as scheduled via video-
teleconference. 
During the hearing, Department Counsel offered five exhibits, Government 
Exhibits (GE) 1 - 5, which were admitted without objection. Applicant offered three exhibits 
which were admitted as Applicant Exhibits (AE) A - C, without objection. The record was 
held open until December 6, 2024, to allow Applicant the opportunity to submit additional 
exhibits. She did not submit additional exhibits. On December 2, 2024, DOHA received a 
transcript (Tr.) of the hearing. The record closed on December 6, 2024. 
Some details were excluded from this decision to protect Applicant’s right to 
privacy. Specific information is available in the cited exhibits and transcript. 
Procedural Issue  
During the hearing , Department Counsel mo ved to amend the SOR to conform 
with the evidence, in accordance with Directive ¶ E3.1.17, by adding tax year 2022 to 
SOR ¶ 1.s and SOR ¶ 1.t as follows: 
1.t  You failed to file federal income tax returns for the tax years 2021 and 
2022. As of the date of this Statement of Reasons, the tax retur ns remain 
unfiled. 
1.u You failed to file state income tax returns for the tax years 2021 and 
2022. As of the date of this Statement of Reasons, the tax returns remain 
unfiled. 
There being no objection from Applicant, the motion to amend was granted. 
(Tr. 57-58) 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s SOR response, she admits all of the SOR allegations. Her 
admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Additional findings follow. 
Applicant is a 33-year-old employee of a defense contractor seeking to obtain a 
security clearance. She has worked for her current employer since October 2022. This is 
her first time applying for a security clearance. She has no military service. She has a 
high school diploma and some college credits. In June 2022, she was laid off from her 
previous job and was unemployed between June 2022 to October 2022. She is single 
and has no children. (Tr. 14, 34; GE 1) 
2 
 
 
                                         
 
      
         
        
   
          
    
 
        
          
           
            
           
                
             
           
   
 
 
     
           
          
         
    
            
 
  
       
               
          
       
 
        
          
         
         
      
          
          
Applicant submitted an electronic questionnaire for investigations processing on 
October 10, 2022. A subsequent background investigation revealed that she had 
approximately 19 delinquent debts totaling approximately $26,954. The debts included 
one automobile repossession, 12 medical debts, and six consumer debts. Applicant also 
failed to file her federal and state income tax returns for tax years 2021 and 2022 and 
owed a $200 state property tax debt. 
The SOR debts include: a charged-off automobile loan account with an 
approximate balance of $18,777 (SOR ¶ 1.a: GE 5 at 2; GE 6 at 2); a delinquent medical 
account placed for collection with an approximate balance of $870 (SOR ¶ 1.b: GE 5 at 
2); an $865 credit card account placed for collection (SOR ¶ 1.c: GE 5 at 2); a $ 719 
charged-off account (SOR ¶ 1.d: GE 3 at 3; GE 4 at 4; GE 5 at 3); a $ 545 delinquent 
insurance account placed for collection (SOR ¶ 1.e: GE 3 at 4; GE 4 at 4; GE 5 at 3); a 
$338 delinquent cell phone account placed for collection (SOR ¶ 1.f: GE 5 at 3; GE 6 at 
1); and a $252 delinquent insurance account placed for collection (SOR ¶ 1.g: GE 3 at 5; 
GE 4  at 6; GE 5 at 3). 
Additional delinquent  accounts include:  a  delinquent medical account placed  for  
collection  with  an  approximate  balance  of  $815  (SOR ¶  1.h: GE  3  at  2; GE  4  at 3);  a  $781   
delinquent medical account  that  was placed  for collection  (SOR  ¶  1.i: GE  3  at  2;  GE  4  at  
3);  a  $606  delinquent medical account that  was placed  for  collection  (SOR ¶  1.j: GE  3  at 
3; GE  4  at  4); a  $471  delinquent  medical  account  that was placed  for collection  (SOR  ¶  
1.k: GE  3  at 4; GE  4  at 5); a  $429  delinquent medical account  that was placed  for  
collection (SOR ¶ 1.l: GE 3  at 4; GE 4  at 5);  a $411  delinquent medical account that was  
placed  for collection  (SOR ¶  1.m: GE  3  at 4; GE  4  at 5);  and  a  $338  delinquent cell  phone  
account that was placed for collection (SOR ¶ 1.n: GE  3 at 5; GE  4 at 6).  
Additional delinquent accounts include: ; a $273 delinquent medical account that 
was placed for collection (SOR ¶ 1. o: GE 3 at 5; GE 4 at 6); a $222 delinquent medical 
account that was placed for collection (SOR ¶ 1.p: GE 3 at 6; GE 4 at 6); a $144 delinquent 
medical account that was placed for collection (SOR ¶ 1. q: GE 3 at 6; GE 4 at 7); a $53 
delinquent medical account that was placed for collection (SOR ¶ 1.r: GE 3 at 6; GE 4 at 
7); and a $45 delinquent medical account that was placed for collection (SOR ¶ 1. s: GE 
3 at 6; GE 4 at 7) 
Applicant failed to file federal income tax returns for tax years 2021 and 2022 (SOR 
¶ 1.t: Tr. 33-36; GE 2 at 2-3; GE 3 at 13-14); she failed to file state income tax returns for 
tax years 2021 and 2022 (SOR ¶ 1.u: Tr. 33-36, 45-46, 49; GE 2 at 2-3); and she owes 
$200 for unpaid state property taxes. (SOR ¶ 1.v: Tr. 37-39; GE 2 at 3). 
Applicant encountered financial problems when she was laid off from a previous 
employer in June 2022. She was unable to pay her bills. She moved in with her parents 
to save money. She was unemployed until she was hired by her current employer. Her 
job involves her going out to sea on a ship for various periods. The deployments range 
from 60 days, 90 days, 120 days, etc. It is not unusual for the deployments to last longer 
than originally planned. Upon her return from deployment, Applicant is not paid until she 
is hired for another contract with a ship that is deploying. On average, she earns 
3 
 
 
                                         
 
        
    
    
 
 
 
        
     
     
       
        
           
        
         
        
           
             
       
      
  
 
         
          
        
        
           
            
       
        
           
       
          
  
approximately $6,000 a month while on deployment. She was hired by her current 
employer in August 2022 but did not deploy on her first ship until May 2023. She was 
unemployed between August 2022 and May 2023. (Tr. 30, 42-44, 59) 
Applicant testified  that  13  of the  15  accounts  alleged  in the  SOR are  resolved.  She  
retained  a  credit  repair  firm  who  disputed  all of the  debts listed  on her credit report. As a  
result, 13  debts  were  removed  from  her credit report. Applicant  admits that  she  did  not  
make  any  payments towards any of the  debts  that  were  removed  from  her credit report.  
She  testified  that  she  did not have  to  pay them  because  they were  charged  off. (Tr 14-
19; AE  C at  2)  It  is likely  they  were  removed  because  the  Fair  Credit Reporting  Act (FCRA) 
requires debts to  be removed from credit reports after seven years.  
After the  credit repair  firm  disputed  Applicant’s debts, three  delinquent accounts   
remained  outstanding,  which  are the  debts alleged  in SOR ¶¶  1.f, 1.g,  and  1.n.  SOR ¶¶  
1.f  and  1.n  both  allege  a  $338  delinquent cell  phone  account  with  the  same  cell  phone  
company.  These  accounts appear to  be  duplicates. I find  SOR ¶  1.n  for Applicant.  The  
remaining  $338  alleged  in SOR ¶  1.f  remains unresolved. (AE  B  at  3-4) The  remaining  
delinquent  account was the  $252  delinquent insurance  account  placed  for  collection  
alleged as SOR ¶  1.g.  It remains unresolved  as well. (AE  B  at  3-4)  
As of the close of the record, Applicant had not filed her federal and state income 
tax returns for tax years 2021 and 2022, which were alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.t and 1.u. She 
claims that her previous employer did not provide her W-2 for tax year 2021. She provided 
a copy of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) transcripts for tax year 2021. It indicated 
that she had not filed her 2021 federal income tax return as of April 19, 2023. She was 
due a $2,800 refund for that tax year . She claimed she was working on obtaining 
documents so she could file her federal and state income tax returns for 2021. During the 
hearing, she admitted that she did not file her federal and state income tax returns for tax 
year 2022. She mistakenly believed that she did not have to file income tax returns if she 
worked less than six months during the year. (Tr. 33-36) She intended to file the federal 
and state income tax returns for tax years 2021 and 2022 at some point in the future. The 
record was held open to allow her to submit proof that she filed her federal and state 
income tax returns for tax years 2021 and 2022. She did not submit any documentation 
after the hearing. 
Applicant owes $200 for unpaid state property taxes. (SOR ¶ 1.v) This debt was 
related to her automobile. She voluntarily turned the car back into the dealer because she 
could not afford the payments when she was unemployed. In her October 2022 e-QIP 
application, in response to Section 26- Financial Record -Taxes, she indicated that she 
is making payments on the property tax debt and it will be resolved in November 2022. 
In her response to the SOR on August 14, 2023, she indicated the debt remained unpaid 
and that she would pay the debt within the next month. (Tr. 47-48) During the hearing, 
she testified that she did not pay the property tax debt because she was disputing some 
of the charge because she did not own the automobile for the full year. She said the state 
notified her of the amount that she owes for property tax and that she would pay it the 
following week. (Tr. 37-38) Applicant did not provide proof after the hearing that that she 
paid this debt. 
4 
 
 
                                         
 
     
         
               
             
           
        
    
      
          
        
     
    
 
      
      
 
 
 
     
           
       
         
    
  
 
       
       
         
      
        
       
       
        
        
   
 
       
        
     
           
      
      
    
 
Applicant testified that she could not make payments towards her delinquent debts 
because she had to deal with other financial obligations. When she was laid off in 2022, 
she moved in with a family member to save money and returned her car to the dealer 
because she could not afford to make payments. She saved money so she could afford 
to rent an apartment and purchase a car. One week before the hearing, she purchased a 
used car for $21,000. Her monthly car payment with insurance will be $612 . She is 
currently not making payments towards the charged-off car loan. Her rent is $1,550. She 
paid several months of the rent in advance in anticipation of future deployments. She was 
scheduled to deploy in January 2025. The relatives she stayed with charged her $500 a 
month for rent . She paid them back first. She had approximately $5,000 in checking at 
the time of the hearing. She has no savings. She claims she follows a budget but did not 
provide a copy of her budget after the hearing. (Tr. 29, 31-32, 41-42, 54-57) 
Applicant has student loans that were in deferment at the time of the hearing. The 
deferment ends in late December 2024, which will result in her having to make payments 
towards her student loans. (Tr. 52-53) 
Whole-Person Evidence  
During her six -month deployment, Applicant’s m anager indicated it was an 
extremely demanding tour which involved two separate missions. He indicated it was one 
of the most challenging activations that he has participated in. Every day was a new 
challenge and he said Applicant remained steadfast and performed her duties in a 
professional manner. She has a strong work ethic and is well liked by the crew. (AE A) 
Policies  
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion of the Executive 
Branch in regulating access to information pertaining to national security emphasizing, 
“no one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 
518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual 
is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The President 
has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicant’s eligibility for 
access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly consistent with the 
national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge ’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
5 
 
 
                                         
 
         
   
         
     
     
       
           
        
           
    
       
     
  
 
   
   
        
        
       
       
       
          
 
 
     
         
          
     
         
            
     
   
 
 
 
    
 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation 
about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Clearance 
decisions must be “in terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a 
determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 § 7. 
Thus, nothing in this decision should be construed to suggest that it is based, in whole or 
in part, on any express or implied determination about applicant ’s allegiance, loyalty, or 
patriotism. It is merely an indication the applicant has not met the strict guidelines the 
President, Secretary of Defense, and Director of National In telligence have established 
for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guideline s 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant ’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 95 -0611 at 2 
(App. Bd. May 2, 1996). 
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition by substantial 
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it 
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue his security clearance.” 
ISCR Case No. 01 -20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). The burden of disproving a 
mitigating condition never shifts to the Government. See ISCR Case No. 02-31154 at 5 
(App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if they must, 
on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; see AG ¶ 2(b). 
Analysis  
Guideline F, Financial Considerations  
AG ¶ 18 expresses the security concern for financial considerations: 
Failure to  live  within  one's means, satisfy debts, and  meet financial  
obligations may indicate  poor self-control, lack of judgment,  or  
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise  
questions about an  individual's reliability, trustworthiness,  and  ability to  
protect  classified  or  sensitive information.  Financial distress can  also be  
caused  or  exacerbated  by, and  thus can  be  a  possible  indicator of,  other  
issues of  personnel security  concern  such  as  excessive gambling, mental  
health  conditions, substance  misuse, or alcohol  abuse  or dependence. An  
6 
 
 
                                         
 
 
    
     
 
  
 
 
   
    
 
     
        
        
   
 
      
        
  
 
 
 
 
 
        
   
individual who  is financially overextended  is at greater risk of having  to  
engage  in  illegal  or  otherwise questionable acts  to  generate  funds.  
Affluence  that cannot be  explained  by known  sources of income  is  also a  
security concern insofar as it may result from  criminal activity, including  
espionage.  
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) inability to satisfy debts;  
(c) a history of not  mee ting financial obligations: and  
(f) failure to file or fraudulently filing annual Federal, state, or local income 
tax returns or failure to pay annual Federal, state, or local income tax as 
required. 
Applicant has a history of financial problems and delinquent debts. AG ¶¶ 19(a) 
and 19(c) are applicable. AG ¶ 19(f) applies to her failure to file federal and state income 
tax returns for tax years 2021 and 2022 and her failure to pay a $200 personal property 
tax debt owed to her state. 
The guideline also includes conditions that could mitigate security concerns arising 
from financial difficulties. I have considered all of the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 
and the following potentially apply: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or occurred  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur and  does not  cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;   
(b) the  conditions  that resulted  in the  financial problem  were  largely  beyond  
the  person’s control (e.g.,  loss of employment,  a  business downturn,  
unexpected  medical emergency,  a  death,  divorce  or separation, clear  
victimization  by predatory lending  practices, or identity  theft), and  the  
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
(c)  the  individual has received  or is receiving  financial counseling  for the  
problem  from  a  legitimate  and  credible  source,  such  as  a  non-profit  credit  
counseling  service, and  there are clear indications that the  problem  is being  
resolved  or is under control;   
(d) the  individual initiated  and  is adhering  to  a  good-faith  effort to  repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;   
(e) the individual has a reasonable basis to dispute the legitimacy of the 
past-due debt which is the cause of the problem and provides documented 
7 
 
 
                                         
 
       
  
 
          
          
 
 
        
       
           
       
  
 
    
           
            
    
          
         
          
         
         
            
               
  
 
       
           
       
        
            
         
  
 
         
         
        
           
       
  
  
           
             
   
 
         
     
proof to substantiate the basis of the dispute or provides evidence of actions 
to resolve the issue; and 
(g) the individual has made arrangements with the appropriate tax authority 
to file or pay the amount owed and is in compliance with those 
arrangements. 
AG ¶ 20(a) does not apply. A pplicant has made no attempts to make payments 
towards any of the delinquent accounts alleged in the SOR. She ignored filing her 2021 
and 2022 federal and state income tax returns for years. Applicant’s failure to take steps 
to resolve her delinquent debts raise questions about h er reliability, trustworthiness and 
judgment. 
Circumstances beyond Applicant’s control contributed to her financial issues. She 
incurred a lot of the delinquent medical accounts because she had no health insurance. 
She was unexpectedly laid off in 2022 for a period of several months. AG ¶ 20(b) partially 
applies. However, it is given less weight because I cannot conclude Applicant acted 
responsibly under the circumstances. She neglected to file her federal and state income 
tax returns for tax years 2021 and 20 22. If she had timely filed her federal income tax 
return for tax year 2021, she would have received a $2,800 refund which she could have 
applied to her other delinquent debts. She did not attempt to pay any of the alleged debts. 
Many of the debts were under $300. The state property tax owed is only $200 and has 
been delinquent for years. While she intends to pay some of the debt s in the future, she 
did not come up with a plan to settle the remaining delinquent debts. She did not act 
responsibly under the circumstances. 
While Applicant testified that her credit repair firm is educating her about managing 
her financial issues, she provided insufficient information on what sort of counseling she 
received. While Applicant intends to pay h er debts, there is no clear indication that the 
problem is being resolved or under control. If Applicant meets with a financial counselor 
from a legitimate and credible source, such as a non-profit counseling service, and follows 
their advice, she may be capable of resolving his delinquent accounts. AG ¶ 20(c) does 
not apply. 
AG ¶ 20(d) does not apply. While several debts were removed from Applicant’s 
credit reports, it was not the result of Applicant making good -faith payments towards 
resolving her delinquent accounts. The debts appear to have been deleted from her credit 
report due to the passage of time. Passively waiting for debts to be removed from a credit 
report after seven years as required under the FCRA is not considered a good-faith basis 
to resolved one’s debts. 
AG ¶ 20(e) does not apply. In her response to the SOR, Applicant admitted all of 
the debts alleged in the SOR. She really had no basis to dispute any of the accounts 
alleged in the SOR.. 
AG ¶ 20(g) does not apply. Applicant neglected to file her Federal and state income 
tax returns for tax years 2021 and 20 22 for several years. The tax returns remained 
8 
 
 
                                         
 
               
     
 
         
         
       
       
       
            
       
  
 
       
 
 
 
        
 
       
   
 
         
      
      
        
      
     
   
   
 
           
        
        
       
    
 
      
      
        
     
          
           
          
         
           
unfiled at the close of the record. She also failed to pay off the $200 state personal 
property tax debt that she has owed for several years. Her tax issues remain unresolved. 
The DOHA Appeal Board has held that f ailure to comply with tax laws suggests 
that an applicant has a problem with abiding by well -established government rules and 
systems. Voluntary compliance with rules and systems is essential for protecting 
classified information. See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 16-01726 at 5 (App. Bd. Feb. 28, 2018). 
A person who fails repeatedly to fulfill his or her legal obligations, such as filing tax returns 
and paying taxes when due, does not demonstrate the high degree of good judgment and 
reliability required of those granted access to classified information. See, e.g., ISCR Case 
No. 17-01382 at 4 (App. Bd. May 16, 2018). 
Overall, Applicant did not meet her burden of proof to mitigate the concerns raised 
under financial considerations. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole -person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
Applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the Applicant’s 
conduct and all the circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coe rcion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), “[t]he ultimate determination” of whether to grant a security 
clearance “must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines” and the whole-person concept. M y comments under Guideline F are 
incorporated in my whole -person analysis. Some of the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) were 
addressed under those guidelines but some warrant additional comment. 
I considered Applicant’s employment history with her current employer. I 
considered her period o f unemployment between 2021 and 2022. While circumstances 
beyond her control contributed to Applicant’s financial problems, she had no plan in place 
to resolve her delinquent debts other than to passively wait seven years until her debts 
are removed from her credit reports as required by the FCRA. Even more important, she 
failed to file her federal and state income tax returns in 2021 and 2022. She has had 
several years to file her returns. She also failed to pay a $200 state personal property tax 
debt. Applicant needs more time to get her financial situation in order . She did not take 
sufficient action before the hearing to demonstrate that she was attempting to resolve her 
9 
 
 
                                         
 
       
        
 
 
  
   
  
     
 
     
 
  
 
 
     
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_________________________ 
delinquent debts as well as resolve her federal and state tax issues for tax years 2021 
and 2022. The security concerns raised under Financial Considerations are not mitigated. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  F:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  1.n: For Applicant 
Subparagraphs 1.a  –  1:m, 1.o  -1.v Against Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances in this case, it is not clearly consistent with the 
interests of national security to grant or continue Applicant’s eligibility for a security 
clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Erin C. Hogan 
Administrative Judge 
10 