___________ 
___________ 
DEPA
RTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 23-02323 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance  ) 
A
ppearances 
For Government: Erin P. Thompson, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Grant Couch, Esq. 
08/01/2025 
Decision 
MURPHY, Braden M., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant mitigated security concerns about his drug involvement and substance 
misuse. He mitigated financial considerations security concerns about his delinquent 
debts. He did not mitigate personal conduct security concerns over his failure to disclose 
his drug use on his security clearance application. Applicant’s eligibility for access to 
classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case 
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on July 22, 2022. On 
November 14, 2023, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency Consolidated 
Adjudication Services (DSCA CAS) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant 
detailing security concerns under Guideline E (personal conduct) and Guideline H (drug 
involvement and substance misuse). The DOD issued the SOR under Executive Order 
(Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 
1960), as amended; Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial 
Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended 
(Directive); and Security Executive Agent Directive (SEAD) 4, National Security 
Adjudicative Guidelines (AG), effective June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR on December 4, 2023, and requested a hearing 
before an administrative judge from the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA). 
On February 12, 2025, Department Counsel amended the SOR to add security 
concerns under Guideline F (financial considerations). The added allegations are based, 
in part, on a credit report made available through the DOD’s Continuous Vetting Program. 
(Hearing Exhibit (HE) IV) Applicant answered the new allegations on March 10, 2025. 
The case was subsequently assigned to me. After consulting with the parties, the 
case was initially scheduled for a video-teleconference hearing on April 22, 2025. On the 
day of the hearing, Applicant appeared but requested additional time to pursue retaining 
legal counsel. The hearing was then postponed until May 27, 2025. (April 22, 2025 
Hearing Transcript (Tr. # 1) at 1-8) DOHA then issued a hearing notice for the rescheduled 
May 27, 2025 hearing, but that hearing was continued once Applicant retained co unsel. 
On May 12, 2025, DOHA issued an amended hearing notice rescheduling the hearing for 
June 26, 2025, by video-teleconference through an online platform. 
The hearing then convened as rescheduled. Department Counsel offered 
Government’s Exhibits (GE) 1 through 6. Applicant offered Exhibits (AE) A through O. All 
exhibits were admitted without objection. Applicant also testified. After the hearing, 
Applicant submitted additional exhibits AE P through AE V, all of which I admitted without 
objection. DOHA received the hearing transcript (Tr.) on July 8, 2025. The record closed 
on July 10, 2025. 
Findings of Fact 
Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b under Guideline E and SOR ¶¶ 2.a, 2.b, 
and 2.c under Guideline H in the original SOR, all without further comment. As to the 
added allegations under Guideline F, he admitted the debts at SOR ¶¶ 3.a, 3.b, 3.e, and 
3.f, and he denied SOR ¶¶ 3.c and 3 .d, all without further comment. His admissions are 
incorporated into the findings of fact. Additional findings follow. 
Applicant is 32 years old. He has an associate degree and is pursuing a bachelor’s 
degree. He has been married twice (2012-2017 and June 2020 to July 2021). He and his 
first wife have a daughter, age 12, and he has a son, age 7, from his second marriage. 
He lives with his girlfriend. Applicant enlisted in the Army after high school, in 2011. (GE 
1; AE R; Tr. 9, 23, 42, 50-51) 
In December 2020, while he was serving as an Army recruiter in State 1, Applicant 
used tested positive for tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) the chemical compound found in 
marijuana, during a random urinalysis. He was a staff sergeant (E -6) and he held a 
security clearance at the time, though he did not have classified access. (SOR ¶¶ 2. a, 
2.b. 2.c) He acknowledged that he tested positive because he had used marijuana. As a 
result. Applicant received non- judicial punishment (NJP) under the Uniform Code of 
Military Ju stice (UCMJ) at a Field Grade Article 15 proceeding. He received an oral 
reprimand, forfeited $1,881 pay for two months, and was reduced in rank to sergeant (E-
5). He was also removed from recruiting duty. (GE 2, GE 3; Tr. 38- 39) Applicant’s rank 
2 
was later restored, and he was honorably discharged in July 2021. (AE Q; Tr. 26-27, 51-
55) 
A
pplicant then moved home to State 2. He was unemployed until May or June 
2022, when he began working for company A. He worked there for about a year until he 
was sponsored by another cleared employer (company B). He worked at company B until 
July 2024 when the contract ended and he lost his clearance sponsorship. He then spent 
about six months working for a veteran’s nonprofit organization until February 2025, when 
he was rehired and re-sponsored for a clearance by company A. (GE 1; Tr. 24-25, 57-59, 
62-66) 
When he prepared his SCA, Applicant did not disclose that he had used marijuana 
in the previous seven years, or that his marijuana use in December 2020 had occurred 
while he possessed a security clearance. (GE 1 at Section 23) In his SOR response, he 
admitted Guideline E SOR ¶¶ 2.a and 2.b, which allege that his failure to disclose his 
marijuana use on his SCA in answering these two questions was deliberately false. 
During his December 2023 background interview, Applicant also did not volunteer 
his marijuana use or his NJP until he was confronted with evidence of his positive drug 
test. (GE 4 at 1) He then explained that he was counseled by his commanding officer and 
ordered to attend counseling through the Army Substance Abuse Program (ASAP), which 
he did, in January 2021. (GE 4 at 1-3) 
Applicant then explained that he used marijuana (THC) in November 2020 while 
home in State 2 on holiday leave. He was at a party on Thanksgiving, and a friend asked 
him to try it through a vaping pipe. The friend said it would not show up on a drug test. 
Applicant also used the vaping pipe by himself at his parents’ house later that weekend. 
He later tested positive for THC, in December 2020, as noted above. He had not tried 
marijuana before that weekend. (GE 4 at 2; Tr. 36-37, 43-44, 51, 56) 
Applicant explained that he did not enjoy life as an Army recruiter. He found it a 
stressful job because there was less of a command structure and less unit camaraderie 
than in typical Army units, and he struggled to meet his recruiting quotas. He became 
depressed. This led to his decision to use marijuana. (Tr. 44-48, 54-55) 
Applicant acknowledged during the interview that he did not disclose his NJP, his 
drug use, or his ASAP counseling on his SCA. He said he was advised by a family 
member to answer “no” to the SCA questions because the information would not come 
up in a background check. (GE 4 at 3) He also acknowledged that he was desperate and 
needed a job, and did not want anything to keep him from getting it. He knows what he 
did was wrong and would not do it again. (Tr. 35- 36) He acknowledged that he knew he 
used drugs, including with a clearance, and he knew he tested positive. He acknowledged 
lying on his SCA. He explained that he understood that his lack of candor could show he 
was untrustworthy and that trustworthiness is “the most important thing” when working 
with classified information. (Tr. 59-61) 
After he left the Army, Applicant purchased and smoked a legal cannabidiol (CBD) 
extract several times a day between August 2021 and January 2022. He stopped when 
3 
he decided to go back to school. (GE 4 at 3; Tr. 48, 52) This use was not illegal and is 
not alleged in the SOR. 
Applicant no longer associates with the people in his State 2 hometown with whom 
he used marijuana and no longer uses marijuana or any CBD extract. He regrets his 
decision to use marijuana. He said he is more mature and wants to live a more stable 
lifestyle. He is also pursuing a college degree. He is subject to random drug testing at 
work. He has never used any other illegal drug and only takes prescription drugs as 
prescribed to him. He disavowed any further intent to use illegal drugs and signed a 
statement of intent to abstain. He recently took an online drug education course. (Tr. 37-
40, 56; AE C, AE G) 
As alleged, the six SOR debts total about $43,732. They are established by credit 
reports in the record, from December 2024 and February 2025 (GE 5, GE 6) Applicant 
addressed the debts in his SOR response and provided an update. (AE K) 
Applicant explained that he and his second wife ended their marriage around the 
time he left the Army. He thought he would easily be able to find a civilian job, but that did 
not materialize right away. He quickly became financially overextended. (Tr. 33-34, 58) 
SOR ¶ 3.a ($9,695) is a consumer account that has been charged off. This account 
remains pending. (Tr. 28) 
SOR ¶ 3.b ($385) is an insurance account that has been placed for collection. The 
account has been paid and resolved. (Tr. 29-30; AE U) 
SOR ¶ 3.c ($15,450) is a charged-off account with a credit union. Applicant denied 
this debt. He said he received an educational grant in about December 2023 for about 
$3,600. He said he used that grant to make a lump- sum payment towards this debt. He 
believes he owes about $12,000. He did not provide documentation. He is not otherwise 
on a payment plan for this debt. (Tr. 30-32, 67-68) He also said he received a settlement 
offer on this account but did not provide documentation. (Tr. 71-72) 
SOR ¶ 3.d ($6,135) is a charged-off credit card account with creditor A. Applicant 
denied this debt. He documented that he has been making payments on the account 
since 2023. As of February 2025, he owed $2,120 (GE 6 at 4) and as of June 2025, he 
owed $1,380. He regularly pays $200 a month. (AE J at 2, AE L, AE M, AE N; Tr. 32-33, 
68-70) This account is being resolved. 
SOR ¶ 3.e ($6,245) is a charged- off credit card account with creditor A. This is 
another credit card account with the same creditor. (GE 5, GE 6) Applicant began paying 
this debt in June 2025 at $200 a month. (AE J at 1, AE L, AE M, AE N; Tr. 32-33, 68-70) 
This debt is being resolved. 
SOR ¶ 3.f ($5,822) is a credit card account with Bank C1 that has been charged 
off. The account is listed as charged off, in the amount owed, on both credit reports 
submitted by the Government. (GE 5, GE 6 at 5) Applicant asserted that the account is 
4 
being paid, and he cited AE A and AE B as evidence of his efforts at resolution. (Tr. 33, 
70-71; AE A, AE B). However, those debts, owed to collection agency R, concern a 
different bank, Bank C2. A $968 debt in collection to Bank C2 is also cited on GE 5 but is 
not listed on GE 6. This $968 debt, now owed to collection agency R (Acct. #4770), has 
been paid and resolved (AE A, AE H, AE O) as is a different debt to Bank C2 also now 
with collection agency R, for $782 (Acct. #6583). (AE B, AE I). Those debts, w hich are 
not alleged in the SOR, are therefore resolved, although the $5,822 charged- off debt to 
Bank C1 (SOR ¶ 1.f) is not. 
Applicant currently earns $32.50 an hour, about $4,400 net income per month. He 
has about $4,000 in savings. (Tr. 25, 34- 35; AE S, AE T) Applicant also has a 100% 
service-connected disability and now receives $3,831 a month in veterans’ benefits since 
April 2025. (Tr. 42- 43; AE V) He owes about $30,000 in student loans but they are 
deferred while he is taking classes. (Tr. 77-78) 
On his post-hearing personal financial statement (PFS), Applicant listed $8,295 in 
monthly income (net salary and VA benefits). He disclosed $4,623 in monthly expenses, 
and noted three debt payments, totaling $1,000, and listed a net remainder of $2,672. 
(AE P) 
Applicant expects to continue to address his debts as he is able. He has not had 
any credit counseling. He does not have any other delinquent debts or tax issues. He said 
he has learned from his past mistakes and is working towards being more financially 
stable. (Tr. 73-75) 
Applicant was awarded two Army Commendation Medals, two Army Achievement 
Medals, three Army Good Conduct Medals, and appropriate service medals and ribbons. 
(AE Q) Work -related references attest to Applicant’s integrity, accountability, and 
professionalism. He is regarded as responsible, reliable, and trustworthy, and someone 
who follows rules and regulations. (AE D, AE E, AE F) 
Policies 
It is well established that no one has a right to a security clearance. As the 
Supreme Court has held, “the clearly consistent standard indicates that security 
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of Navy v. 
Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988). 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
5 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of several variables known as the “whole-
person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. Likewise, I have not drawn inferences grounded on mere 
speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified inform ation. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Analysis 
Guideline H: Drug Involvement 
AG ¶ 24 details the security concern for drug involvement: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription drugs, and the use of other substances that can cause physical 
or mental impairment or are used in a manner inconsistent with their 
intended use can raise questions about an individual’s reliability and 
trustworthiness, both because such behavior may lead to physical or 
psychological impairment and because it raises questions about a person’s 
ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations. Controlled 
substance means any “controlled substance” as defined in 21 U.S.C 802. 
Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in this guideline to describe 
any of the behaviors listed above. 
I have considered the disqualifying conditions for drug involvement under AG ¶ 25 
and the following are potentially applicable: 
6 
(a) any substance misuse (see above definition); 
(b) testing positive for an illegal drug; and 
(f) any illegal drug use while granted access to classified information or 
hol
ding a sensitive position. 
In l
ate November 2020, Applicant used marijuana while at home on leave over 
Thanksgiving weekend. He tested positive for THC on a random drug test shortly 
thereafter, in December 2020. AG ¶¶ 25(a) and 25(b) apply. 
As an Army recruiter, Applicant held a clearance at the time but did not have 
access to classified information. However, the fact that he held a clearance establishes 
his status as an individual in a sensitive position, as alleged in SOR ¶ 2.c. AG ¶ 25(f) 
applies. 
The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 26 are potentially applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or happened 
und
er such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or does not cast doubt 
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment; and 
(b) the individual acknowledges his or her drug involvement and substance 
m
isuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and 
has established a pattern of abstinence, including, but not limited to: (1) 
disassociation from drug- using associates and contacts; (2) changing or 
avoiding the environment where drugs were used; and (3) providing a 
signed statement of intent to abstain from all  drug involvement and 
substance misuse, acknowledging that any future involvement is grounds 
for revocation of national security eligibility. 
Appl
icant used marijuana over a Thanksgiving weekend in late 2020, about four 
and a half years ago. He was in the Army at the time, and he held a clearance. He 
therefore should have known better. He received NJP in an Article 15 hearing, was 
reduced in rank for a period of time, and completed an Army substance abuse counseling 
program. He was allowed to leave the Army in July 2021 with an honorable discharge. 
For the next several months in 2021, he used CBD extract products several times a day. 
This is not alleged in the SOR, and it was not illegal. There is no evidence of Applicant’s 
subsequent involvement with illegal drugs, and he disavows any intended future use. He 
has also disassociated himself from those in his home environment with whom he used 
marijuana in late 2020. Notwithstanding my analysis under Guideline E, below, I 
nonetheless conclude that AG ¶¶ 26(a) and 26(b) apply, and Guideline H security 
concerns are mitigated. 
Guideline E: Personal Conduct 
AG ¶ 15 details the security concerns for personal conduct: 
7 
Conduc
t involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions about 
an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or 
sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to cooperate or provide 
truthful or candid answers during national security eligibility investigative or 
adjudicative processes. The following will normally result in an unfavorable 
national security eligibility determination, security clearance action, or 
cancellation of further processing for national security eligibility: 
(a) refusal, or failure without reasonable cause, to undergo or cooperate 
with security processing, including but not limited to meeting with a security 
investigator for subject interview, completing security forms or releases, 
cooperation with medical or psychological evaluation, or polygraph 
examination, if authorized and required. 
I considered the following disqualifying condition under AG ¶ 16: 
(a) deliberate omission, concealment, or falsification of relevant facts from 
any personnel security questionnaire, personal history statement, or similar 
form used to conduct investigations, determine employment qualifications, 
award benefits or status, determine national security eligibility or 
trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities. 
Applicant deliberately failed to disclose his illegal drug use on his July 2022 SCA. 
He acknowledged his lack of candor, and he admitted that he omitted his drug use out of 
concern for his job. AG ¶¶ 16(a) applies. 
AG ¶ 17 sets forth the following potentially applicable mitigating conditions under 
Guideline E: 
(a)  
 the individual made prompt, good- faith efforts to correct the omission, 
concealment, or falsification before being confronted with the facts; 
(c) the of fense is so minor, or so much time has passed, or the behavior 
is so infrequent, or it happened under such unique circumstances that it 
is unlikely to recur and does not cast doubt on the individual's reliability, 
trustworthiness, or good judgment. 
Fal
sification of a security clearance application regarding a relevant and 
material fact, particularly about illegal drug use, is not a “minor” offense. Nor did it 
occur under such unique circumstances that are unlikely to recur and does not cast 
doubt on his individual's reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment. It is also not 
mitigating that Applicant relied on a family member in choosing not to disclose his 
drug involvement on his SCA. AG ¶ 17(c) does not apply. 
8 
Applicant did not voluntarily disclose his marijuana use or positive drug test to 
the investigator before he was confronted with evidence of it. AG ¶ 17(a) does not 
apply. 
Guideline F, Financial Considerations 
The security concern relating to the guideline for financial considerations is set out, 
in relevant part, in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one’s means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. . . . 
This concern is broader than the possibility that an individual might knowingly 
compromise classified information in order to raise money. It encompasses concerns 
about an individual’s self-control, judgment, and other qualities essential to protecting 
classified information. An individual who is financially irresponsible may also be 
irresponsible, unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding classified 
information. See ISCR Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012). 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) inability to satisfy debts; and 
(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations. 
Applicant incurred various delinquent debts after he left the Army and found the 
transition to civilian employment difficult. The debts are established by the credit reports 
in the record, and, where applicable, by Applicant’s admissions. AG ¶¶ 19(a) and 19(c) 
both apply. 
The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 are potentially applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred 
und
er such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does not cast doubt 
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment; 
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely beyond 
t
he person’s control (e.g., loss of employment, a business downturn, 
unexpected medical emergency, or a death, divorce or separation, clear 
victimization by predatory lending practices, or identity theft), and the 
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances; and 
9 
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- f aith effort to repay 
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts. 
Whi
le Applicant has resolved several of his SOR debts, others remain. AG ¶ 20(a) 
does not fully apply. 
Applicant’s debts originated after he left the Army and was unemployed for about 
10 months while transitioning to civilian life. This was a circumstance beyond his control. 
The first prong of AG ¶ 20(b) applies. 
Applicant is in the process of resolving several of his SOR debts. SOR ¶ 3.b has 
been paid. He has been paying the debt at SOR ¶ 3.d regularly since 2023 and has almost 
finished paying the agreed amount. He has turned his attention next to SOR ¶ 3.e. The 
remaining, larger debts, SOR ¶ ¶ 3.a, 3.b, and 3.f, remain unresolved. However, while 
they are not alleged, he is credited with paying the two smaller debts to Bank C2. 
Applicant has been paying his debts, one at a time, since 2023, once his 
employment stabilized. He is not required to have all of his debts, or his SOR debts, paid 
off, nor is he required to pay them off in any particular way. He needs a responsible plan 
and to show that he has taken sufficient steps towards implementing that plan to evince 
a track record of steady payments, enough to show the likelihood that his payments will 
continue in the future, so that the debt, and the resulting security risk, is reduced. 
Applicant has shown this. AG ¶¶ 20(b) and 20(d) both apply. 
Whole-Person Concept 
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. I considered the potentially 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances 
surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under Guidelines H, E, and F in 
my whole-person analysis. 
10 
 
_________
____________________ 
The government has a compelling interest in protecting and safeguarding 
classified information. That includes the government's legitimate interest in being able to 
make sound decisions, based on complete and accurate information, about who will be 
granted access to classified information. An applicant who deliberately fails to give full, 
frank, and candid answers to the government in connection with a security clearance 
investigation or adjudication interferes with the integrity of the industrial security program. 
ISCR Case No. 01-03132 at 3 (App. Bd. Aug. 8, 2002) 
Applicant mitigated security concerns over his illegal drug use, and he is executing 
a responsible plan to address his debts, which resulted from a period of unemployment 
after he left the Army. However, his deliberate falsifications on his SCA and his failure to 
acknowledge it until he was confronted during his background interview show that security 
concerns from that conduct are not mitigated. Applicant has not carried his burden. 
Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts as to Applicant’s 
continued eligibility for access to classified information. 
Formal Findings 
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline E: AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.b:  Against Applicant 
Paragraph 2, Guideline H: FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 2.a-2.c: For Applicant 
Paragraph 3: Guideline F: FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 3.a-3.f: For Applicant 
Conclusion 
Considering all of the circumstances, it is not clearly consistent with the interests 
of national security to grant Applicant a security clearance. Eligibility for access to 
classified information is denied. 
Braden M. Murphy 
Administrative Judge 
11 