 
 
 
                                                              
   
                     DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
   DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS        
           
             
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
     
       
    
In  the matter  of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR  Case No.  23-02557  
  )  
Applicant for  Security Clearance  )  
 
Appearances  
For Government: Nicole Smith, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Caleb N. Byrd, Esq. 
04/23/2025 
Decision  
BENSON, Pamela C., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant mitigated the Guideline H (drug involvement and substance misuse) , 
Guideline G (alcohol consumption), and Guideline J (criminal conduct) security concerns. 
National security eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
   
Statement of the Case  
 
   
  
      
 
  
  
    
 
 
 
 
______________ 
______________ On Dec
ember 19, 202 3, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) 
to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guidelines H , G, and J. The DCSA CAS 
acted under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines implemented by the DOD 
on June 8, 2017. 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
    
   
   
 
    
    
      
  
   
    
  
 
Appli
cant provided an undated response to the SOR (Answer). He admitted all the 
SOR allegations (SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.e, 2.a, 2.b, and 3.a.), and he requested a hearing 
before a Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) administrative judge. I was 
assigned this case on September 12, 2024. DOHA issued a notice on Dec ember 13, 
2024, scheduling the hearing for January 28, 2025. The hearing proceeded as scheduled 
via online video teleconferencing. 
Department Counsel submitted Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 6; Applicant 
testified and offered five documents labeled as Applicant Exhibits (AE) A through E; and 
all exhibits were admitted into evidence without objection. Applicant requested I hold the 
record open so he could supplement the record with additional documentation. Without 
objection, I held the record open until February 11, 2025. DOHA received the hearing 
transcript (Tr.) on February 2, 2025. Applicant timely submitted AE F, and the record 
closed on February 11, 2025. 
 Findings of Fact  
 
       
    
     
      
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
   
Ap
plicant is 31 years old. He is engaged to his girlfriend who, has a daughter, age 
seven, from a previous relationship. He loves his fiancée’s daughter as if she were his 
own child. In June 2018, he earned a trade-school certification. Since May 2023, he has 
been employed full time as a journeyman electrician for a DOD contractor. His annual 
salary is approximately $63,000. His employer is sponsoring him for a DOD security 
clearance. (GE 1; Tr. 15, 20-21) 
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
Applicant used and purchased marijuana from about 2012 to December 2022.  
(SOR  ¶¶  1.a and 1. b)  During the hearing,  he  said that he may have used marijuana three  
to five times a week,  but  at times it varied,  and he could have used it  as  much as ten  
times a week. The recreational use of  marijuana is not legal in his state of residence.  His 
 
fiancée  has never used marijuana with him.  In about August 2020,  she gave him an  
ultimatum, in part, to stop using marijuana.  Applicant continued to use marijuana, without  
her knowledge,  until December 2022, when he made the decision to quit  using marijuana  
altogether.  He has always been aware marijuana is  prohibited under  federal law.  (Tr. 23-
25,  27-30, 33-36; GE 2, 3)  
Applicant  was  arrested for possession of  marijuana in about June 2012. (SOR  ¶  
1.c) He was 18 years old and had just  graduated from  high school. The court  placed him  
on deferred adjudication, and he was required  to complete six  months of probation.  After  
he successfully completed his  probation period, the charge was  subsequently  dismissed. 
(Tr. 15-16)  
 
Applicant was arrested for possession of marijuana in August 2014. (SOR ¶ 1.d) 
He pled guilty to the misdemeanor charge and paid a fine and court costs. (Tr. 17; GE 4) 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
    
    
 
 
         
   
 
     
       
    
 
  
  
    
  
 
 
  
   
   
      
 
 
 
 
Alcohol Consumption  
Applicant was arrested on two separate occasions  in 2020 and charged with  
driving  while  intoxicated  (DWI). 
 (SOR ¶¶ 2. a and 2.b)  His first DWI arrest occurred in  
February 2020. The charge was amended to failure to control  speed,  and it  was  later  
dismissed after he completed an alcohol-education class and attended  a Mothers Against  
Drunk Driving course.  The second DWI arrest  occurred in August  2020  and  was 
dismissed due to insufficient evidence. It is important to note  that at  the time of his  arrest,  
46 grams of  marijuana  and two digital scales were f ound in his vehicle.  (SOR ¶ 1. e) 
Although Applicant  admitted this information, he wa s not charged with  possession of  
marijuana  or  with  any  other drug- related offense. He  also acknowledged  he was  
intoxicated on both occasions  when he was  charged with DWI offenses in 2020.  (Tr. 18-
19, 26-27; GE 5, 6; AE A, B, C, D)  
A
pplicant does not believe he has a current problem with his consumption of 
alcohol. He generally drinks alcohol in moderation on the weekends with his fiancée. They 
usually drink between two and three beers each on a Friday and Saturday. If he goes out 
and consumes alcohol, he does not drive and uses the services of a ride transportation 
company. (Tr. 27, 30) 
Criminal Conduct  
The information alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.c, 1.d, 2.a, and 2.b, w as also cross alleged 
under Guideline J. (SOR ¶ 3.a) 
Applicant has not been charged with any criminal offenses in the past five years. 
His girlfriend told him following his second 2020 DUI arrest that if he did not change his 
behavior, she and her daughter would leave him. He said her ultimatum is when he 
decided he needed to change his life and stop drinking alcohol irresponsibly. He has 
matured and stated he is not the same man he was five years ago. He loves his family 
and his job, and although it took him until December 2022 to completely stop using 
marijuana, he would not do anything reckless to jeopardize his current situation. He no 
longer associates with the friends he used to hang out with five years ago. (Tr. 19-23, 25, 
28) 
Applicant disclosed his marijuana use and all his criminal offenses on his June 
2023 security clearance application (SCA). He was candid about his past alcohol, drug, 
and criminal transgressions during the security clearance investigation. He is remorseful 
about his past misconduct and poor decision-making. (GE 1, 2) 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
  
   
 
     
    
 
              
Character  Evidence  
Appl
icant submitted a positive employee performance (180-Day Probationary) 
appraisal ending November 2023. His supervisor stated, “[Applicant] is a great addition 
to the [team]. He has a well -rounded background and has a great and outgoing work 
ethic. [Applicant] has a great thirst for knowledge and is willing to listen and learn. I look 
forward to working with him for years to come… .” Applicant also submitted 13 character 
reference letters from family, friends, and work associates. The overall theme of these 
letters indicate he is dependable, hardworking, and a trustworthy individual. (AE E, F) 
    P
olicies  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
    
      
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
   
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
W
hen evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for access to classified 
information will be resolved in favor of national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. Likewise, I have not drawn inferences grounded on mere 
speculation or conjecture. 
Directive ¶ E3.1.14 requires the Government to present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
   
    
    
   
 
                 
classi
fied information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of Executive Order 10865 provides that decisions shall be “in terms of 
the national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
  Analysis  
 
 
   
 
    
  
  
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
     
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Guidel
ine H: Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse   
AG ¶ 24 expresses the security concern for drug involvement: 
The illegal use of controlled substances . . . can raise questions about an 
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. 
I have considered the disqualifying conditions for drug involvement under AG ¶ 
25 and the following are potentially applicable: 
AG ¶  25(a) any s
 ubstance misuse;  and  
AG
 ¶ 25(c)  illegal  possess ion of a controlled substance, including  
cultivation, processing, manufacture,  purchase, sale, or distribution; or  
possession of drug paraphernalia.  
Applican
t admitted he used and purchased marijuana, with varying frequency, 
from about 2012 to December 2022. The above disqualifying conditions apply. 
I have considered the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 26. The following are 
potentially applicable: 
AG ¶ 26(a)  the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or  
happened und
er such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or does not  
cast doubt  on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  
judgment; and  
AG ¶ 26(b)  the individual acknowledges his  or her dru g involvement and
substance misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
    
      
 
      
   
     
  
      
   
     
     
   
 
 
 
     
 
      
  
 
  
 
 
 
problem, and has established a p  attern of abstinence,  including, but  not  
limited to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-us
 ing associates and contacts;  
(2) changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were used;  
and  
(3)  providing a s igned  a statement of intent to abstain from  all drug  
involvement or substance misuse, acknowledging that any future  
involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation of  national security  
eligibility.  
Appl
icant’s last use of marijuana occurred over two years ago. He credibly testified 
that he decided to stop all use of marijuana in December 2022. I was somewhat troubled 
that he continued to use marijuana for over two years after his fiancée give him an August 
2020 ultimatum to turn his life around; however, his sincerity during the hearing convinced 
me of his earnestness. There is no evidence of more recent use. He is aware marijuana 
is illegal under federal law and incompatible for individuals entrusted with DOD security 
clearances. He no longer associates with colleagues who use illegal drugs. He fully 
disclosed his drug use on his June 2023 SCA and throughout the security clearance 
investigation. He has learned from his mistakes and is remorseful for his past use of 
marijuana. Although he did not submit a written statement of intent to abstain from illegal 
drug use in the future, he verbally stated this information during the hearing. Overall, 
Applicant’s actions demonstrate candor, good judgment and reliability . Mitigating 
conditions AG ¶¶ 26(a) and 26(b) apply. He successfully mitigated drug involvement and 
substance misuse security concerns. 
Guideline G: Alcohol  Consumption  
AG ¶ 21 describes the security concern about alcohol consumption, “Excessive 
alcohol consumption often leads to the exercise of questionable judgment or the failure 
to control impulses and can raise questions about an individual’s reliability and 
trustworthiness.” 
AG ¶ 22 provides conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying as follows: 
(a) alcohol-r elated incidents  away from work, such as  driving while under  
the influence, fighting,  child or spouse abuse,  disturbing the peace, or other  
incidents  of concern, regardless  of the frequency of the individual’s alcohol  
use or  whether the i ndividual has been diagnosed with al cohol use di sorder;  
and  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
  
 
    
 
 
 
    
        
   
    
    
  
    
   
 
     
     
  
   
 
 
    
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
(c)
 habitual  or binge consumption of alcohol to the point of impaired  
judgment, regardless  of whether the individual is diagnosed with alcohol  
use disorder.  
T
he record evidence establishes AG ¶¶ 22(a), and 22(c). Applicant was involved 
in two alcohol-related offenses in 2020. 
AG ¶ 23 lists two conditions that could mitigate security concerns: 
(a) so much time has passed,  or  the behavior was so infrequent, or it  
happened under such unusual circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or  
does not cast doubt on the individual’s current reliability,  trustworthiness,  or  
judgment;  and  
(b) the individual acknowledges his  or  her pattern of maladaptive  alcohol  
use,  provides evidence of  actions taken to overcome this  problem, and has  
demonstrated a clear and established pattern of modified consumption or  
abstinence in accordance with treatment recommendations.  
In 2
020, Applicant was arrested twice for DWI offenses. He acknowledged he was 
intoxicated both times he was pulled over by the police. In August 2020, his girlfriend told 
him that he needed to make some positive changes in his lifestyle, or she would leave 
him. He does not believe he has a problem with using alcohol and he continues to 
consume alcohol in moderation. I f he consumes alcohol away from home, he uses the 
services of a ride transportation company instead of driving himself home . He has not 
had any alcohol-related offenses, nor any criminal charges filed against him, since his 
last DWI arrest in August 2020. 
AG ¶¶ 23(a) and 23(b ) apply. Nearly five years have passed since Applicant’s 
second DWI arrest in August 2020. He regrets his past irresponsible drinking and has 
made positive changes in his life to prevent alcohol -related misconduct from recurring. 
Overall, I find Applicant successfully mitigated the alcohol consumption security concerns. 
Guideline J: Criminal  Conduct  
The security concern related to the criminal conduct guideline is set out in AG ¶ 
30: 
Criminal activity creates doubt about a person's judgment, reliability, and 
trustworthiness. By its very nature, it calls into question a person’s ability or willingness 
to comply with laws, rules, and regulations. 
AG ¶ 31 lists conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying. Three potentially apply: 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
     
 
    
 
 
 
    
    
     
  
  
      
    
 
 
  
 
    
   
 
(a) a pattern of  m
 inor offenses, any  one of which on its own would be  
unlikely to affect a  national security eligibility decision, but which in  
combination cast doubt  on the individual's judgment, reliability, or  
trustworthiness;  and  
(b) evidence (including, but not limited to, a credible allegation, an 
adm
ission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of  
whether the individual  was formally charged,  prosecuted, or convicted.  
The r
ecord evidence establishes AG ¶¶ 31(a) and 31(b). Applicant was involved in 
multiple alcohol and drug-related offenses in 2012, 2014, and 2020. 
AG ¶ 32 lists two conditions that could mitigate the security concerns: 
(a) so much time has  el apsed since the criminal behavior happened, or it  
happened under such unusual circumstances, that it is unlikely to recur and  
does not cast doubt on the individual's reliability, trustworthiness,  or good  
judgment; and  
(d) there is evidence of successful rehabilitation; including, but not limited  
t
o, the passage of time without recurrence of criminal activity, restitution,  
compliance with the terms of parole or  probation, job training or higher  
education, good employment  record,  or constructive community  
involvement.  
Appl
icant’s criminal conduct is not recent. There is no new criminal information 
alleged under this Guideline other than what was already discussed under Guidelines H 
and G. He stated that he made positive changes in his life and has matured. He has not 
been charged with any criminal offense since his last DWI arrest in August 2020. This 
long period of time without further criminal misconduct demonstrates rehabilitation, good 
judgment and reliability. I find that future criminal behavior is unlikely to recur. AG ¶¶ 32(a) 
and 32(d) apply. Applicant successfully mitigated the criminal conduct security concerns. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
   
  
 
 
    
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
    
     
 
  
 
   
   
  
  
     
   
  
    
 
         
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under
 AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration of 
the guidelines and the whole- person concept. I considered the potentially disqualifying 
and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances surrounding this case. 
I have incorporated my comments under Guidelines H, G, and J and the AG ¶ 2(d) factors 
in this whole-person analysis. 
The Federal government must be able to repose a high degree of trust and 
confidence in persons granted access to classified information. In deciding whether to 
grant or continue access to classified information, the Federal government can take into 
account facts and circumstances of an applicant's personal life that shed light on the 
person's judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness. Furthermore, security clearance 
decisions are not limited to consideration of an applicant's conduct during work or duty 
hours. Even if an applicant has a good work record, his off-duty conduct or circumstances 
can have security significance and may be considered in evaluating the applicant's 
national security eligibility. 
Applicant made positive changes in his life, which are fully supported by 13 
character reference letters and his 2023 positive employee performance evaluation in the 
record. He is dedicated to his new career with a DOD contractor , to his family, and he is 
committed to remaining drug-free and using alcohol in moderation. I find his future use of 
illegal drugs, excessive use of alcohol, and criminal conduct is unlikely to recur. I have no 
reservations or doubts about Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. 
After evaluating all the evidence in the context of the whole person, I conclude Applicant 
has mitigated the SOR’s alleged security concerns. 
 Formal Findings  
 
      
    
 
   
 
   
 
  
Form
al findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline H:  FOR APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 1.a  through  1.e:  For Applicant  
FOR APPLICANT           P
aragraph  2, Guideline G:  
S
ubparagraphs  2.a and 2.b:  For Applicant  
  
 
   
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
    
 
          
Paragraph 3, Guideline J:  FOR APPLICANT  
S
ubparagraph 3.a:  For Applicant  
    Conclusion  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
           
                                                      
 
  
In l
ight of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, I conclude 
that it is clearly consistent with national security to grant or continue Applicant’s national 
security eligibility. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Pamela C. Benson 
Administrative Judge 
10 