 
 
 
 
                                                              
     
               
          
             
 
    
  
                                                                  
   
                  
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
       
 
                                                             
 
 
 
 
            
        
    
 
 
 
      
        
       
      
        
      
      
      
        
     
  
__________ 
__________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ADP No. 23-01146 
) 
Applicant for Public trust Position ) 
Appearances 
For Government: John Renehan, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Tanasha Dalton, Personal Representative 
02/06/2025 
Decision 
WESLEY, ROGER C. Administrative Judge 
Based upon a review of the case file, pleadings, and exhibits, A pplicant did not 
mitigate financial considerations concerns. Eligibility f or access to hold a public trust 
position is denied. 
Statement of the Case 
On June 13, 2023, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) 
Consolidated Adjudication s Services (CAS) issued a statement of reasons (SOR) to 
Applicant detailing reasons why under the financial guideline the DCSA CAS could not 
make the preliminary affirmative determination of eligibility to hold a public trust position, 
recommended referral to an administrative judge to determine whether eligibility to hold 
a public trust position should be granted, continued, denied, or revoked. The action was 
taken under Executive O rder (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Cl assified I nformation 
within Industry (February 20, 1960 ); Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance 
Review Program , Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 5220.6 (January 2, 1992) 
(Directive); and Security Executive Agent Directive 4, establishing in Appendix A the 
National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to 
1 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
         
  
 
          
          
         
         
   
 
         
 
             
           
       
         
        
   
      
 
       
          
 
 
          
    
   
 
  
         
 
 
                                                                                                                
 
        
         
  
 
       
         
       
    
 
         
   
Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AGs), effective June 8, 
2017. 
Applicant responded to the SOR (undated) and requested a hearing. The case 
was assigned to me on April 2, 2024. A hearing was scheduled for October 23, 2024, 
and heard on the scheduled date. At the hearing, the Government’s case consisted of 
six exhibits (GEs 1-6). Applicant relied on one witness (herself) and two exhibits (AEs 
A-B). The transcript (Tr.) was received on October 31, 2024. 
 Procedural Issues  
Before the close of the hearing, Applicant requested the record be kept open to 
permit her the opportunity to supplement the record with explanations of her non -SOR 
vehicle debt that is listed in her credit reports, as well as her arranged payment plans 
with creditors covered by SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b. For good cause shown, Applicant was 
granted 30 days to supplement the record. (Tr. 67 -68) Department Counsel was 
afforded 10 days to respond. Applicant did not supplement the record. 
Summary of Pleadings  
Under Guideline F, Applicant allegedly accumulated four delinquent debts 
exceeding $19,000. Allegedly, these debts have not been resolved and remain 
outstanding. 
In her responses to the SOR , Applicant admitted the allegations covered by 
Guideline F. She added no explanations or clarifications. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 25-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security 
clearance. The admitted allegations are incorporated and adopted as r elevant and 
material findings. Additional findings follow. 
Background     
Applicant never married and has two children from previous relationships. (GEs 
1-2; Tr. 19) She earned an associate’s degree in May 2017. (GE 1; Tr. 24) She reported 
no military service. 
Since August 2022, Applicant has worked for her current employer (a U.S. Army 
military hospital) as a security dispatcher (only part time since January 2023) . (GEs 1-
2; Tr. 18-19) Previously, she worked for other employers in various customer service 
and security officer-related jobs. (GEs 1; Tr. 20-22) 
Applicant reported an involuntary termination in March 2021 attributable to a 
high-risk pregnancy that prevented her return to work. Applicant has never held a 
2 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
    
 
 
 
 
 
     
      
      
          
          
     
     
 
       
       
      
         
         
       
   
        
           
        
    
 
         
        
         
          
        
        
            
  
 
         
          
security clearance or public trust position . (GE 1 ; Tr. 2 4) Her current duties require 
access to protected information. (Tr. 20) 
Applicant’s  finances  
Between  2017  and  2023,  Applicant  accumulated  four SOR-listed  debts  
exceeding  $19,000. (GEs 3-6; Tr. 29-50) Her  debts are covered  in the  SOR as follows:  
1.a  (a  delinquent credit card balance  of $,.827  on  a  listed  individual  account (co-signed  
by her brother)  opened  in 2017  and  reported  delinquent in 2019;  1.b  (a $2,160  
delinquent  credit  card  balance  on  an  individual account opened  in  2017  and  reported  
delinquent  in 2022; 1.c (a  $2,040  delinquent credit card  balance  on  an  individual  
account opened  in  2019  and  reported  delinquent  in 2021); and  1.d  (an  $11,203  
delinquent  balance  on  a  reported  2022  vehicle repossession  of  a  car financed  in June  
2019). (GEs 2-6)  
Applicant attributed her debt delinquencies to reduced employment hours with 
her current employer, necessitated by her high -risk pregnancy in March 2021 and 
ensuing daycare responsibilities as a single mother . (Tr. 19, 21-22) Because of her 
daycare responsibilities with her young son (who is afflicted with autism and sleep 
apnea problems) , she could no longer work her assigned midnight shift as a security 
officer in her current employer’s mental health ward. (Tr. 19, 23) Currently, residing with 
her are her two young children, her brother, and her young son’s father. (GE 5; Tr.24) 
While Applicant’s credit reports do not reflect any payment activity on any of her 
SOR-listed delinquent debts, she provided documentary proof of her past payments on 
two of her delinquent accounts. Payment credits reflect a reduced balance of $787.62 
on her credit card account covered by SOR ¶ 1.c and a zero balance on a delinquent 
vehicle loan covered by SOR ¶ 1.d. (AE A; Tr.37-49) Her payoff of her SOR ¶ 1.d debt 
in October 2024 represented the last scheduled installment of a March 2023 post-
repossession settlement she arranged with the seller of a car she co-purchased with her 
boyfriend in 2019. (GEs 2-4 and AE A; Tr. 48-50) Under the terms of the settlement, 
Applicant agreed to pay the creditor the reduced total sum of $2,241, payable in three 
installments. (GE 5) Applicant credited her boyfriend with making the scheduled 
payments and completing the payoff conditions. (Tr. 50) 
Addressing the remaining two delinquent accounts listed in the SOR, Applicant 
could not document any recent payments made on either of these accounts. (Tr. 30-31) 
Neither she nor her brother have been able to arrange a payment plan with SOR 
creditor 1.a to pay off the $3,827 balance despite earnest attempts to do so. (Tr. 28 -30) 
Applicant noted her last conversation with SOR creditor 1.a and her expressed hopes 
for the opportunity to make affordable monthly payments of $200. (Tr. 29-30) 
Documentation of any follow -up payments on this debt was not provided, and the debt 
remains unresolved and outstanding. (GEs 3-5) 
When inquired about the $2,160 delinquent credit card balance covered by SOR 
¶ 1.b in her personal subject interview (PSI) , Applicant could not provide any recent 
3 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
      
         
     
       
         
   
 
         
      
          
             
             
         
        
 
 
                                                               
 
      
               
    
         
         
     
        
        
   
            
       
     
      
      
  
        
 
payment updates on this account. (Tr. 29 -30) H er credit reports reflect no payment 
progress with respect to SOR creditor 1.b. (GEs 3 -5; Tr. 31) The debt arose from 
Applicant’s mother’s use of the former’s credit card. (Tr. 31-32) Asked whether she ever 
gave her mother permission to use the credit card, Applicant could not recall. (Tr. 33) 
Neither Applicant nor her brother have been able to work out a payment plan with SOR 
creditor 1.b. (GEs 3-5; Tr. 31-34) And, this debt remains unresolved and outstanding. 
When asked in her PSI about a non-SOR repossession deficiency on a vehicle 
she purchased in December 2023 for $16,402, Applicant was unable to provide any 
updates. ( GE 6; Tr. 53 -54) Following breakdowns to the vehicle , she had the vehicle 
towed to the seller’s dealership facility for assessment and repairs. As of the date of the 
hearing, she had heard nothing back from the creditor on the status of the car and any 
amounts due. (Tr. 54-62) Afforded a post-hearing opportunity to provide updates on the 
state of the vehicle and the loan balance, she furnished no updates. 
Applicant currently works several jobs to  cover her monthly expenses and  debts.  
(GE 2; Tr. 62) She  estimated  her gross monthly income  from  her combined  jobs to  
approximate  $3,000, which  is up  slightly from  her reported  income  in 2023. (GE 2; Tr.  
62) After covering  her monthly expenses,  she  estimated  a  monthly remainder of around  
$400. (GE  2;  Tr. 63) She  has a  vehicle  she  purchased  in  2024,  and  with  her combined  
income, she  is able   to  make  her monthly contributions of $100  to  her 401(k)-retirement  
account.  (Tr. 64-66) Although  she  has  not sought  financial counseling,  or debt  
consolidation,  she  assured  that  she  has  ceased  using  credit  cards altogether and  is  
committed  to  avoiding  future  credit  card  and  other  debt  delinquencies. (Tr. 65-66) While  
she  appears to  be  sincere in her assurances, she  provided  no  corroboration  and  
remains untested in  her future commitments.  
Policies 
By virtue of the jurisprudential principles recognized by t he U.S. Supreme Court in 
Department of the Navy v. Egan , 484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988 ), “no one has a ‘right’ to a 
security clearance. ” [or implicitly a public trust position]. As Commander in Chief, “the 
President has the authority to control access to information bearing on national security 
and to determine whether an individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such 
information.” Id. at 527. Eligibility for access to classified information [or public trust 
position] may only be granted “upon a finding that it is clearly consistent with the national 
interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry § 
2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Holding a public trust position involves the exercise of important fiducial 
responsibilities, among which is the expectancy of consistent trust and candor in 
protecting and guarding personally identifiable information (PII). DoD Manual 5200.02, 
which incorporated and canceled DoD Regulation 5200.2 -R, covers both critical -
sensitive and non-critical sensitive security positions for civilian personnel. See 5200.02, 
¶ 4.1a(3)(c)    
4 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
    
           
        
        
     
      
     
        
        
  
 
 
              
 
 
      
         
     
       
           
 
 
         
        
           
      
 
 
          
         
            
          
           
Definitions for critical -sensitive and non -critical sensitive positions provided in 
5200.02, ¶ 4.1a(3)(c) contain descriptions similar to those used to define ADP I and II 
positions under DoD Regulation 5200.2 -R. (32 C.F.R. § 154.13 and Part 154, App. J) 
ADP positions are broken down as follows in C.F.R. § 154.13 and Part 154, App. J): 
ADP I (critical -sensitive positions covering the direction, design, and planning of 
computer systems) and ADP II (non -critical-sensitive positions covering the design, 
operation, and maintenance of computer systems). Considered together, the ADP I and 
II positions covered in DoD Regulation 5200.2 -R refine and explain the same critical -
sensitive positions covered in DoD Manual 5200.02, ¶ 4.1a(3)(c) and are reconcilable 
as included positions in 5200.02. 
So, while  ADP  trustworthiness  positions are  not expressly identified  in  DoD 
Manual 5200.02, they  are implicitly covered  as  non-critical sensitive positions that  
require  “access to  automated  systems that contain  active  duty,  guard, or personally   
identifiable information  or information  pertaining  to  Service  members that  is  otherwise  
protected  from  disclosure by DoD  5400.11-R .  .   .”  DoD  5200.02, ¶  4.1a(3)(c)   See  
DoD Directive 5220.6, ¶¶  D5(d)  and  D8. By virtue  of the  implied  retention  of  ADP  
definitions in DoD Manual 5200.02, ADP  cases continue  to  be  covered  by  the  process  
afforded  by DoD 5220.6.        
Eligibility to  hold  a  public trust position  is  predicated  upon  the  applicant meeting  
the  criteria  contained  in the  adjudicative  guidelines.  The  AGs list guidelines to  be  
considered  by judges in  the  decision-making  process covering  DOHA cases. These  AG  
guidelines  take  into  account factors that could create  a  potential conflict of  interest for  
the  individual applicant,  as well   as  considerations  that  could  affect the   individual’s  
reliability, trustworthiness, and  ability to  protect classified  and  privacy information  
potentially accessed in public trust positions.   
The AG guidelines include conditions that could raise a security or public trust 
concern and may be disqualifying (disqualifying conditions), if any, and all of the 
conditions that could mitigate security clearance eligibility and public trust concerns, if 
any. These guidelines must be con sidered before deciding whether or not eligibility to 
hold a security clearance or public trust position should be granted, continued, or 
denied. 
Although, the guidelines do not require judges to place exclusive reliance on the 
enumerated disqualifying and mitigating conditions in the guidelines in arriving at a 
decision. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk that the 
applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified and other 
sensitive information. 
In addition to the relevant AGs, judges must take into account the pertinent 
considerations for assessing extenuation and mitigation set forth in ¶ 2(a) of the AGs, 
which are intended to assist the judges in reaching a fair and impartial, commonsense 
decision based on a careful consideration of the per tinent guidelines within the context of 
the whole person. The adjudicative process is designed to examine a sufficient period of 
5 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
 
          
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
       
       
 
 
     
      
         
    
         
            
     
 
an  applicant’s life  to  enable  predictive judgments to  be  made  about  whether the  applicant  
is an  acceptable  security or public trust risk. An  administrative  judge  must consider all  
available,  reliable information  about the  person, past and  present, favorable and  
unfavorable.  
When  evaluating  an  applicant’s conduct, the  relevant  guidelines are to  be  
considered  together with  the  following  ¶  2(d) factors:  (1) the  nature, extent,  and  
seriousness of the  conduct; (2) the  circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  
knowledgeable participation; (3)  the  frequency and  recency of  the  conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to   which  
participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  and  other 
permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  of the  conduct;  (8) the  potential for  
pressure, coercion,  exploitation, or duress;  and  (9) the  likelihood  of continuation  or  
recurrence.  
Viewing the issues raised and evidence as a whole, the following individual 
guidelines are pertinent herein: 
Financial Considerations  
The  Concern:  Failure  or inability to  live  within one’s means, satisfy debts 
and  meet  financial obligations  may indicate  poor self-control,  lack of  
judgment,  or unwillingness to  abide  by rules or regulations,  all  of  which  
can  raise  questions  about  an  individual’s reliability, trustworthiness and  
ability to  protect  classified  or sensitive information.  Financial distress can  
also be  caused  or exacerbated  by, and  thus can  be  a  possible  indicator of  
other issues of personnel security concern such  as  excessive  gambling,  
mental health  conditions, substance  misuse, or alcohol abuse  or 
dependence. An  individual who  is financially  overextended  is at greater  
risk of having  to  engage  in illegal acts or otherwise questionable acts to  
generate  funds.  .  .  .   AG ¶  18.   
  Burdens of Proof  
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons 
holding public trust positions, as well as those with access to classified information. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off-duty hours. 
Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk the applicant 
may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard privacy or classified and information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation a bout 
potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of privacy and classified information. 
Clearance decisions must be “in terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be 
a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 § 7. 
See also Exec. Or. 12968 (Aug. 2, 1995), § 3.1. 
6 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
     
 
         
          
        
     
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
       
         
       
         
  
 
Initially, the  Government must establish, by  substantial evidence,  conditions in  
the  personal  or professional history of  the  applicant  that  may  disqualify the  applicant 
from  being  eligible  for  access to  classified  information,  or to  hold  a  public trust position.  
The  Government has the  burden  of establishing  controverted  facts  alleged  in the  SOR.  
See  Egan, 484  U.S. at 531.  “Substantial evidence ”  is “more than  a  scintilla but less  
than  a  preponderance.”   See  v. Washington Metro. Area  Transit Auth.,  36  F.3d 375, 380  
(4th  Cir. 1994). The  guidelines presume  a  nexus or rational connection  between  proven  
conduct under any of the  criteria  listed  therein  and  an  applicant’s security [public trust] 
suitability. See  ISCR Case No. 95-0611 at 2 (App. Bd. May 2, 1996).   
 
Once  the  Government establishes a  disqualifying  condition  by substantial 
evidence, the  burden  shifts to  the  applicant  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or mitigate  the  
facts.  Directive ¶  E3.1.15.  An  applicant “has the  ultimate  burden  of demonstrating  that  it  
is clearly consistent  with  the  national interest to  grant or continue  his [or her] security  
clearance”  and  eligibility (implicitly)  to  hold  a  public trust position. ISCR  Case  No.  01-
20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002).  
The burden of disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the Government. 
See ISCR Case No. 02 -31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance 
determinations [and implicitly public trust position eligibility] should err, if they must, on 
the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; see AG ¶ 2(b). 
Analysis  
Public trust concerns  are raised  over Applicant’s accumulation  of four delinquent  
accounts exceeding  $19,000. While  two  of the  SOR-listed  accounts have  either been  
resolved  or are being  resolved  with  payments, two  of  them  (covered  by  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  and  
1.b) have  not and remain outstanding  without any follow up from Applicant.  
Financial concerns  
Applicant’s accumulated  delinquent debts warrant the  application  of two  of the  
disqualifying  conditions (DC)  of  the  financial consideration  guidelines. DC  ¶¶  19(a),  
inability to  satisfy  debts” and  19(c), “a  history of  not  meeting  financial obligations” apply  
to  Applicant’s situation. Her  admitted  debt delinquencies require  no  independent proof  
to  substantiate  them.  See  Directive 5220.6  at E3.1.1.14;  McCormick on  Evidence  §  262  
(6th  ed. 2006). H er  admitted  debt delinquencies are fully documented  and  raise   
judgment issues over the  management of h er  finances. See  ISCR  Case  No.  03-01059  
(App. Bd. Sept. 24, 2004).  
Financial stability in a person cleared to protect sensitive information is required 
precisely to inspire trust and confidence in the holder of a public trust position that 
entitles the person to access sensitive information. While the principal concern of the 
holder of a public trust position is the holder’s vulnerability to coercion and influence, 
judgment and trust concerns are implicit in cases involving delinquent debts. 
7 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
 
          
             
          
       
          
        
    
 
           
      
      
       
    
     
       
        
  
 
       
       
        
            
         
       
         
      
    
 
 
 
        
      
        
           
          
           
Historically, the  timing  of addressing  and  resolving  of Applicant’s listed  debt  
delinquencies  (SORs  ¶¶  1.a-1.b)  are critical to  an  assessment of an  applicant’s  
trustworthiness, reliability, and  good  judgment in following  rules and  guidelines  
necessary for  those  seeking  eligibility  to  access classified  information  or  implicitly to  
hold a  position  of trust with  access to  sensitive  information.  See  ISCR  Case  No.  14-
06808  at 3  (App. Bd. Nov.  23.  2016); ISCR  Case  No.  14-01894  at 5  (App.  Bd.  Aug. 18,  
2015); ISCR Case No. 14-00221 at 2-5 (App. Bd. June  29, 2016).  
To her credit, Applicant is making progress on one of her accrued delinquent 
accounts (SOR ¶ 1.c ) and has resolved a second debt with a payoff (SOR ¶ 1.d). 
Further, she promised to address her two remaining SOR-listed accounts when she is 
able to make contact with her creditors and work out repayment plans with the m. And, 
she committed to updating the status of her reported non-SOR debt associated with her 
disabled vehicle when she was able to obtain updates from the seller. Applicant 
impressed as both sincere and credible with her commitments. 
To be sure, Applicant’s remaining two SOR-listed debts are relatively small 
(collectively under $6,000) and are accompanied by both extenuating and mitigating 
circumstances. Mitigating conditions (MCs) 19(b), “the conditions that resulted in the 
financial problem were largely beyond the person’s control (e.g., loss of employment, a 
business downturn, unexpected medical emergency , a death, divorce or separation, 
clear victimization by predatory lending practices, or identity theft), and the individual 
acted responsibly under the circumstances” and 19)(d), “the individual initiated and is 
adhering to a good -faith effort to repay overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts” 
partially apply to Applicant’s situation. 
More is required of Applicant, however, to meet the minimum requirements for 
eligibility to hold a public trust position. Applicants seeking a public trust position are 
evaluated under the same fiducial standards , guidelines, and procedures as those who 
apply for security clearances. ADP Case No. 18 -00679 at 3 (App. Bd. Oct. 17, 2019). 
For both public trust and security clearance applicants, promises to pay or otherwise 
resolve delinquent debts in the future are not a substitute for a track record of paying 
debts in a timely way and otherwise acting in a financially responsible manner . ISCR 
Case No. 17 -04110 at 4 (App. Bd. Sep. 26, 2019). Applicant’s promises and 
assurances, while welcomed, require more seasoning to satisfy public trust position 
eligibility criteria. 
Whole-person assessment  
From a whole -person perspective, Applicant has established enough 
independent probative evidence of her ability to satisfy and resolve her remaining 
delinquent accounts and ma nage her finances responsibly in the foreseeable future. 
Considering the record as a whole and granting due weight to Applicant’s positive 
commitments to manage her finances responsibly in the future, there is sufficient 
probative evidence of sustainable extenuation and mitigation in the record to make 
8 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
       
  
 
 
 
        
      
       
      
 
                                         
                                                          
 
                 
 
         
         
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
__________________________ 
safe, predictable judgments about her ability to stabilize and control her finances 
responsibly in the foreseeable future. 
I have  carefully  applied  the  law, as  set forth  in Department of Navy v. Egan,  484  
U.S. 518  (1988), Exec. Or.  10865, the  Directive,  and  the  AGs, to  the  facts  and  
circumstances in the  context of the  whole  person,  I  conclude  financial considerations 
public trust  concerns are  not mitigated.  Eligibility to hold a public trust position   is  denied.   
Formal Findings  
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
GUIDELINE  F  (FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS): AGAINST APPLICANT 
Against Applicant  
For Applicant  
 Subparagraphs 1.a-1.b: 
 
    Subparagraphs  1.c-1.d: 
 C onclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility to hold a public 
trust position. Eligibility to hold a public trust position is denied. 
Roger C. Wesley 
Administrative Judge 
9 