 
 
  
 
  
        
         
           
             
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
     
    
 
  
    
  
  
  
    
   
      
  
  
   
 
 
  
 
___________ 
___________ 
DEPAR
TMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of:  )  
 )  
      )   ISCR Case No. 23-00935  
  )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance   )  
 
Appear
ances  
 
For Gover
nment: Brittany C. White, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Sean D. Rogers, Esq. 
06/10/2025 
Decision 
HARVEY, Mark, Administrative Judge: 
Guidelines B (foreign influence) and E (personal conduct) security concerns are 
not mitigated. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On July 26, 2021, Applicant completed an Electronic Questionnaires for 
Investigations Processing or security clearance application (SCA). (Government Exhibit 
(GE) 1) On June 9, 2023, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) 
issued a statement of reasons (SOR) to Applicant under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 
10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960); 
Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security 
Clearance Review Program (Directive) (January 2, 1992), as amended; and Security 
Executive Agent Directive 4, establishing in Appendix A, the National Security 
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or 
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AGs), effective June 8, 2017. (Hearing Exhibit (HE) 
2) 
The SOR detailed reasons why the DCSA did not find under the Directive that it is 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant or continue a security 
clearance for Applicant and recommended referral to an administrative judge to determine 
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
    
     
 
     
 
 
        
  
   
         
 
 
     
   
     
      
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
     
    
 
     
    
      
   
whether a clearance should be granted, continued, denied, or revoked. Specifically, the 
SOR set forth security concerns arising under Guidelines B and E. (HE 2) On January 19, 
2024, Applicant provided his response to the SOR. On February 14, 2024, Department 
Counsel was ready to proceed. On November 7, 2024, the case was assigned to another 
administrative judge, and on February 3, 2025, the case was transferred to me for 
administrative reasons. On February 3, 2025, the Defense Office of Hearings and 
Appeals issued a notice scheduling the hearing on March 5, 2025. (HE 1) The hearing 
was held as scheduled, using the Microsoft Teams video teleconference system. The 
hearing was in Arlington, Virginia, and Applicant was in the Middle East. (Tr. 5) 
During the hearing, Department Counsel offered two exhibits into evidence, and 
Applicant offered 14 exhibits into evidence. (Tr. 12-14; GE 1-GE 2; Applicant Exhibit (AE) 
A-AE I) There were no objections, and all proffered exhibits were admitted into evidence. 
(Tr. 13-14) On March 17, 2025, DOHA received a copy of the transcript. The record was 
not held open after the hearing for post-hearing documentation. 
Legal Issue  
The parties did not request administrative notice concerning Niger. I emailed two 
documents to the parties concerning Niger for potential administrative notice, and gave 
them 10 days to submit comments, objections, or documents. (HE 4) See ISCR Case No. 
17-03026 at 4 n.4 (App. Bd. Jan. 16, 2019) The parties did not object to me taking 
administrative notice of the two documents concerning Niger. 
Administrative or official notice is the appropriate type of  notice used for  
administrative proceedings.  See  ISCR Case No.  16-02522 at 2 -3 (App. Bd. July 12,  
2017); ISCR Case No. 05- 11292 at 4 n.1 ( App.  Bd. Apr.  12,  2007); ISCR  Case N o. 02-
24875 at  2 (App.  Bd.  Oct. 12, 2006) (citing ISCR Case No.  02-18668 at 3 (App. Bd. Feb.  
10,  2004) and  McLeod  v. Immigration and Naturalization Service, 802 F.2d 89, 93 n.4 (3d  
Cir. 1986)). Usually, administrative notice at  ISCR proceedings is accorded to facts that  
are either well known or from government reports.  See  Stein,  Administrative Law, Section  
25.01 (Bender & Co. 2006)  (listing fifteen types of facts for administrative notice).  I have 
taken administrative notice of the information in the Niger section,  infra.  
Some details were excluded to protect Applicant’s right to privacy. Specific 
information is available in the cited exhibits and transcript. 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, 2.a, 
and 2.b. (HE 3) He also provided mitigating information. His admissions are accepted as 
findings of fact. Additional findings follow. 
Applicant is 58 years old, and he has been employed as a logistics specialist for a 
DOD contractor since 2008. (Tr. 20-21; GE 1) He joined the Air Force when he was 19 
years old. (Tr. 15) He served in the Air Force from 1986 to 2006. (Tr. 16 , 50) He served 
more than 12 years overseas during his Air Force career. (Tr. 17; AE B) He honorably 
2 
 
 
 
       
    
 
 
    
    
      
 
     
   
 
  
   
   
      
       
 
  
      
     
     
  
  
   
    
  
 
 
    
   
     
  
      
      
     
   
      
retired from the Air Force as a master sergeant. (Tr. 17)  He received numerous Air Force  
awards,  letters,  and certificates of appreciation,  recognition, training,  and congratulation. 
(AE B; AE C ; AE D ) He received one Meritorious Service Medal  and four  Air Force  
Commendation Medals. (AE B; AE C)  He served on multiple deployments  as a contractor  
in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other places in which  there was a risk of injury or death. (Tr. 22-
26)  He received excellent  performance evaluations. (AE  A)  His resume provides 
additional information  about his professional  background, training,  and experience. (AE  
E)  
In 1987, Applicant married. (GE 1) His children were born in 1991 and 1994. Id. 
His spouse and children are U.S. citizens. Id. His parents were U.S. citizens. Id. 
Foreign Influence  
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges since about January 2021, Applicant maintained contact with a 
woman (W1) who is a resident of Niger. He had an intimate relationship with W1. He 
provided W1 about $500 to $1,000 in monthly financial support. 
In Applicant’s July 26, 2021 SCA, he disclosed that he had a friend in Niger, and 
he provided about $300 monthly to her. (GE 1 at 28) On October 28, 2021, an Office of 
Personnel Management (OPM) investigator interviewed Applicant about his relationship 
with W1. Applicant said his relationship with W1 “evolved into them having real emotions 
for one another. [Applicant] has love[] for [W1] but he knew the relationship would not 
last.” (GE 2 at 3-4) While he was in Niger , he began providing W1 “$500 to $1,000 per 
month.” Id. He has daily contact with her by email. Id. Applicant informed his spouse of 
his relationship with W1. Id. He sent W1 $200 in October 2021. Id. 
At his hearing, Applicant said he met W1 when he was deployed to Niger in 
October of 2019 as part of his employment, and he was in Niger for about four months. 
(Tr. 28-29, 53-54) He met W1 in the middle of his deployment. (Tr. 29, 54) The relationship 
with W1 became intimate towards the end of his stay in Niger. (Tr. 30, 58) He did not give 
her money after engaging in sexual intercourse with her. (Tr. 58) He left Niger , and he 
returned on a personal trip in 2021. (Tr. 31) He stayed with W1 when he went to Niger in 
2021. (Tr. 44, 62) He considered opening a business in Niger. (Tr. 56) He did not return 
to Niger after 2021. (Tr. 31- 32) He was unaware of whether she had any affiliation with 
the Niger government. (Tr. 32) She never asked him for any sensitive information. (Tr. 
33, 44) 
W1 was a waitress and cashier in a restaurant in Niger. (Tr. 34, 54) Her age was 
between 30 and 40 years old. (Tr. 54) She had a child, and she was living with her father. 
(Tr. 55) Her monthly income from her Niger employment was about $100. (Tr. 34) He 
indicated he paid her about $300 monthly primarily for apartment expenses, medications, 
and food. (GE 1) The largest single payment he made was about $1,000. (Tr. 59) He was 
unsure about the total amount of funds he gave to W1. (Tr. 67) He was in Niger from 
January to February 2021. (Tr. 61) He had an emotional attachment to W1, and he 
considered it to be a “relationship” as opposed to a commercial transaction. (Tr. 62) He 
did not visit with W1 after February of 2021, which was his most recent visit to Niger. (Tr. 
3 
 
 
 
     
   
   
 
      
     
      
   
   
 
     
    
  
   
    
  
   
  
     
   
      
    
 
 
  
    
   
 
 
        
   
 
 
  
    
53) He stopped providing financial support  to her  and ended his  contacts with her  in 
December 2023. (Tr. 41, 65, 68) He gave money to W1 because she was impoverished.  
(Tr. 41) He did not  have a child with W1. (Tr.  45) He does not own any property in Niger.  
(Tr. 45) He told his spouse about his relationship with W1 in 2021 w hen he completed his  
SCA. (Tr. 35 -36) He hurt his spouse when he disclosed the information about  W1. (Tr.  
36)   
SOR ¶ 1.b alleges since about 2017, A pplicant has maintained contact with a 
woman (W2) who is a citizen and resident of Belize. He had an intimate relationship with 
her, and he provided her with about $75 to $200 in quarterly financial support. 
In Applicant’s July 26, 2021 SCA, he disclosed that W2 was a friend in Belize, and 
he occasionally gave her $75. In his October 28, 2021 OPM interview, he disclosed the 
information alleged in SOR ¶ 1.b concerning his relationship with W2. (GE 2 at 4 -5) He 
said he provided the quarterly funds, and communicated with her two to four times a 
month. (GE 2 at 5) 
At his hearing, Applicant said in 2017 he went to Belize with his spouse, and he 
and his spouse stayed in Belize for about two weeks. (Tr. 37, 69) He remained in Belize 
for about three weeks after his spouse left, and about 10 days after his spouse left Belize, 
he had an intimate relationship with W2 for about 10 days. (Tr. 37-38, 73) W2 worked at 
a restaurant where Applicant was staying with his spouse. (Tr. 37 , 69 -70) He was 
unaware of any relationship W2 may have had with the Belize government. (Tr. 39) She 
never asked him for sensitive information. (Tr. 44) He did not return to Belize after 2017. 
(Tr. 38) He did not have a child with W2. (Tr. 45) He did not provide money to her until 
after he left Belize. (Tr. 75) He does not own any property in Belize. (Tr. 45) W2’s monthly 
income was about $275. (Tr. 40) He provided some financial support to her for her living 
expenses because he was sympathetic about her financial plight. (Tr. 39, 42) He sent 
funds to her on approximately a quarterly basis from 2017 to 2023. (Tr. 76) He ended the 
relationship with W2 completely in 2023. (Tr. 40) 
Applicant received testing for sexually transmitted diseases (STD) after his sexual 
activity with W1 and W2. (Tr. 78) He has never had an STD. (Tr. 79) He has had training 
on sex trafficking. (Tr. 53) 
Applicant’s payments to W1 and W2 did not cause Applicant financial strain. (Tr.  
50)  The end of his contacts with W1 and W2 may have been triggered by his receipt  of  
DOHA interrogatories. (Tr. 66, 82 ) He gave $28,000 to his church in 2024. (Tr. 50)  W1 
and W2 knew he worked for the U.S. government; however, they did not know specific  
information about his  employment.  (Tr.  81)     
Applicant does not have any property in Niger or Belize. (Tr. 45) He does not have 
any bank accounts or business connections in either country. (Tr. 45) He does not plan 
to live in Niger or Belize. (Tr. 48) 
Applicant’s annual salary as a government contractor is about $120,000. (AE E) 
He has owned a home in the United States since 2005. (Tr. 46) His spouse and two 
4 
 
 
       
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
       
   
    
 
  
    
       
    
     
   
   
 
  
    
    
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
 
   
  
    
   
 
children are U.S. citizens. (Tr. 48) When he retires, he plans to live in the United States. 
(Tr. 48) 
Personal Conduct  
SOR ¶ 2.a cross- alleges the conduct in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b under the personal 
conduct guideline. 
SOR ¶ 2.b alleges his spouse is unaware of Applicant’s extramarital affair with W2, 
and the financial support provided to the women in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b. In 2021, Applicant 
told his spouse about the adulterous relationships with W1 and another woman. (Tr. 49, 
63, 77) He did not specifically tell her his relationship was with W2. (Tr. 38) He and his 
spouse agreed that he should not tell his children about his contacts with W1 or W2. (Tr. 
69, 78) He continued payments to W1 and W2 until 2023 as discussed supra. 
Applicant’s spouse provided a statement in which she said he disclosed his 
infidelities and payments to the women. (AE I) They prayed about it, and tried to rebuild 
the trust in their relationship. Id. She said, “Having thought that this part of our past was 
over, I was shocked to learn that it has all resurfaced with this case and am supporting 
my husband as we continue to try to heal from this hurt or infidelity in our marriage.” Id. 
She believes he is a diligent employee, and she requests that DOD give him an 
opportunity to continue to have access to classified information. 
Two coworkers and a friend provided character references. (AE F) They praised 
Applicant’s professionalism, diligence, efficiency, and reliability. Their statements support 
approval of his access to classified information. 
Niger  
The Department  of State,  Country  Report  on Terrorism 2023: Niger,  
https://www.state.gov/reports/country-reports-on-terrorism-2023/niger/  states:  
Terrorist organizations exploited Niger’s extensive borderlands and sparsely 
populated regions to attack and recruit among populations where access to government 
services was weak and economic opportunity negligible. Niger’s efforts to fight terrorism 
were hampered by the small size of its defense force, ineffective coordination among 
security services, budget shortfalls, and instability in Burkina Faso, Libya, Mali, Nigeria, 
and the Lake Chad Basin. As a result of the July coup d’état, assistance for the 
government of Niger was restricted pursuant to section 7008 of the annual appropriations 
act. Terrorist groups active in Niger included ISIS -Sahel, Boko Haram, ISIS-West Africa 
(ISIS-WA), and al-Qa’ida affiliate JNIM. 
2023 Terrorist Incidents:  Terrorist organizations carried out at least 299 attacks in 
Niger during 2023, including attacks from ISIS -Sahel and JNIM in the West and 
Northwest, and from ISIS-WA and BH in the Southeast. The following five incidents are 
examples of the most significant attacks: 
5 
 
 
    
 
    
   
  
    
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
     
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
    
 
  
    
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
On February 10, ISIS -Sahel militants ambushed a Nigerien Armed Forces (FAN) 
convoy near Intagarmey (Banibangou, Tillabéri Region). Seventeen soldiers were killed, 
13 were wounded, 12 went missing. The assailants destroyed and captured five vehicles, 
according to a government statement. On August 15, ISIS-Sahel militants killed 31 people 
in the villages of Kodogoria, Tomaré, Issile, and Gaberi in the Tillabéri Region. Separately 
on August 15, JNIM militants attacked FAN elements near Koutougou in the Tillabéri 
Region. Seventeen soldiers were killed and 20 others wounded, six of them severely. 
Two militant convoys were targeted in a counterattack that involved helicopter airstrikes, 
resulting in the destruction of 50 motorcycles and more than 100 militants “ neutralized,” 
according to a government statement. 
On October 2, ISIS-Sahel militants executed a complex ambush involving an IED, 
a suicide vehicle- borne IED, and direct fire against FAN elements near Takanamat, 
Tahoua Region. The FAN reported 29 soldiers killed and two injured, dozens of militants 
killed, 15 motorcycles destroyed, and a significant quantity of weapons and ammunition 
seized. Local sources reported that at least 109 soldiers were killed in the attack. On 
December 22, ISIS-WA clashed with FAN elements near Chetimari, Diffa Region. Three 
soldiers were killed by the militants. 
Legislation, Law Enforcement, and Border Security:  Before the coup d’etat, Niger 
was recognized by regional partners as a leader in prosecuting terrorism suspects 
through its specialized antiterrorism court. A DOJ/Overseas Prosecutorial Development 
Assistance and Training program Resident Legal Advisor worked to improve the 
capabilities of counterterrorism (CT) investigators, prosecutors, and judges, to support 
proactive investigations; to increase efficiency in case processing; and to reduce the 
number of pending cases. Assistance was paused following the coup d’etat and remained 
suspended at the end of year. A draft penal code revision also was suspended following 
the coup and remained suspended at year’s end. 
Niger uses border security systems through the Direction de la Surveillance du 
Territoire, a bureau within the national police responsible for travel documents, 
identification credentials, and border security. U.S. Department of State Antiterrorism 
Assistance programs provided equipment, training, and mentorship for National Guard 
and Gendarmerie border security operations and urban crisis response. Assistance was 
paused following the coup d’etat and was subsequently restricted under section 7008. 
The State Department Travel  Advisory  for Niger  (Mar. 21,  2025)  is  available at:  
https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories/niger-travel-
advisory.html. (HE 4)  The U.S. State Department Travel Advisory  is Level 3:  Reconsider  
travel to Niger due to risk of crime, civil unrest, terrorism, kidnapping, and health.  Country  
Summary: Violent crimes, such as  armed robbery, are common.  Demonstrations, while  
generally peaceful,  may become violent  at any time. They can lead to civil unrest.  Terrorist  
groups continue planning kidnappings and possible attacks in Niger.  Terrorists may attack  
with little or no warning. They target:  Tourist destinations visited by foreigners : Foreign  
and local government facilities ;  Areas bordering Mali, Libya,  Burkina Faso,  and  
throughout northern Niger.  Access  to medical care in Niger is limited;  Facilities may not  
6 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
   
   
     
 
 
     
     
 
 
  
  
   
    
 
   
 
  
 
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
have adequate supplies of basic medications,  especially outside of larger cities. It is highly  
recommended to have medical evacuation insurance for travel to Niger.   
Policies  
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion of the Executive 
Branch in regulating access to information pertaining to national security emphasizing, 
“no one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 
518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual 
is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The President 
has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicant’s eligibility for 
access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly consistent with the 
national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation 
about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Clearance 
decisions must be “in terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a 
determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 § 7. 
Thus, nothing in this decision should be construed to suggest that it is based, in whole or 
in part, on any express or implied determination about applicant’s allegiance, loyalty, or 
patriotism. It is merely an indication the applicant has not met the strict guidelines the 
President, Secretary of Defense, and Director of National Intelligence have established 
for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 95 -0611 at 2 
(App. Bd. May 2, 1996). 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
    
    
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial  
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶  E3.1.15. An applicant “has  the ultimate burden of  demonstrating that it  
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant  or continue his [or  her] security  
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01- 20700 at  3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). The burden of  
disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the Government.  See  ISCR Case No. 02-
31154 at  5 (App. Bd.  Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  Egan, 484 U.S. at 531;  see  AG  ¶ 2(b).   
Analysis  
Foreign Influence  
AG ¶ 6 explains the security concern about “foreign contacts and interests” stating: 
Foreign contacts and interests, including, but not limited to, business, 
financial, and property interests, are a national security concern if they result 
in divided allegiance. They may also be a national security concern if they 
create circumstances in which the individual may be manipulated or induced 
to help a foreign person, group, organization, or government in a way 
inconsistent with U.S. interests or otherwise made vulnerable to pressure 
or coercion by any foreign interest. Assessment of foreign contacts and 
interests should consider the country in which the foreign contact or interest 
is located, including, but not limited to, considerations such as whether it is 
known to target U.S. citizens to obtain classified or sensitive information or 
is associated with a risk of terrorism. 
AG ¶ 7 lists conditions that could raise a foreign influence security concern and 
may be disqualifying in this case: 
(a) contact, regardless of  met
 hod, with a foreign family member,  business  
or professional associate, friend,  or other  person who is a citizen of or  
resident in a  foreign country if that contact  creates  a heightened risk of  
foreign exploitation,  inducement, manipulation,  pressure, or  coercion;  and    
(b) connections to a foreign person, group, government,  or c ountry that  
create a potential conflict of interest  between the individual’s obligation to  
protect classified or sensitive information or technology and the individual’s  
desire to help a foreign person, group, or country by providing that  
information or  technology.  
AG ¶
¶ 7(a) and 7(b) are established. Additional discussion is in the foreign 
influence mitigation section, infra. 
AG ¶ 8 lists conditions that could mitigate foreign influence security concerns 
including: 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
   
   
 
 
    
 
     
   
     
    
(a) the nature of the relationships with foreign  pers
 ons, the country in which  
these persons  are located, or the positions  or activities of those persons in  
that country are such that it is unlikely the individual will be placed in a  
position of having to choose between the interests of a foreign individual,  
group, organization,  or government  and the interests of the United States;  
(b) there is no conflict of interest, either because the individual’s sense of  
loy
alty or obligation to the foreign per son, or allegiance to the gr oup,  
government, or country is so minimal, or the individual has such deep and  
longstanding relationships and l  oyalties in the United States, that the 
individual can be expected to resolve any conflict of interest in favor of the  
U.S. interest;  
(c) contact or communication with foreign citizens is so casual and infrequent  
that
 there is little likelihood that it could create a risk for foreign influence or  
exploitation;  
(d) the foreign contacts and activities are on U.S. Government business or  
are ap
proved by  the agency  head or  designee;  
(e) the individual has  prom ptly complied with existing agency requirements  
regarding the reporting of contacts, requests, or threats  from persons,  
groups, or organizations from  a foreign country; and  
(f) the value or routine nature of the foreign business, financial, or property  
int
erests is such that  they are unlikely to result in a conflict and could  not  be  
used effectively to influence, manipulate, or pressure the individual.  
In IS
CR Case No. 10- 04641 at 4 (App. Bd. Sept. 24, 2013), the DOHA Appeal 
Board concisely explained Applicant’s responsibility for proving the applicability of 
mitigating conditions as follows: 
Once a concern arises regarding an Applicant’s security clearance 
eligibility, there is a strong presumption against the grant or maintenance of 
a security clearance. See Dorfmont v. Brown, 913 F. 2d 1399, 1401 (9th 
Cir. 1990), cert. denied, 499 U.S. 905 (1991). After the Government 
presents evidence raising security concerns, the burden shifts to the 
applicant to rebut or mitigate those concerns. See Directive ¶ E3.1.15. The 
standard applicable in security clearance decisions is that articulated in 
Egan, supra. “Any doubt concerning personnel being considered for access 
to classified information will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Directive, Enclosure 2, [App. A] ¶ 2(b). 
Applicant had a relationship with W1, a resident of Niger, from October 2019 to 
December 2023. He engaged in sexual activity with her in 2019 and 2021. He said he 
cared for her ; maybe he loved her; he sent her a significant amount of money over the 
years; and he had frequent contact with her. He communicated with her on a daily basis. 
9 
 
 
   
      
  
   
   
     
     
 
  
   
       
   
  
  
 
    
  
 
 
 
   
   
 
    
    
 
  
   
  
 
  
 
    
  
   
    
 
   
  
  
  
   
 
    
    
 
Applicant also had a relationship with W2, who is a resident of Belize, from 2017 to 
December 2023. He had a brief sexual relationship with W2 in 2017, and he provided her 
with about $75 to $200 in quarterly financial support. He has not visited her since 2017. In 
comparison to his income, his payments to her have been relatively modest. He has never 
indicated that he had an emotional attachment to her. His connections to the United States 
are discussed, infra. AG ¶¶ 8(a) and 8(b) apply to his relationship with W2. SOR ¶ 1.b is 
mitigated and will not be further discussed in this decision. 
The Appeal Board has concluded that contact every two months or three months 
constitutes “frequent contact” under AG ¶¶ 7 and 8. ISCR Case No. 14-05986 at 3-4 (App. 
Bd. Oct. 14, 2016). See also ISCR Case No. 04-09541 at 2-3 (App. Bd. Sept. 26, 2006) 
(finding contacts with applicant’s siblings once every four or five months not casual and 
infrequent and stating “The frequency with which Applicant speaks to his family members 
in Iran does not diminish the strength of his family ties.”). Frequency of contact is not the 
sole determinant of foreign interest security concerns. 
The mere possession of close ties with people living in a foreign country is not, as 
a matter of law, disqualifying under Guideline B. However, if an applicant, his or her 
spouse, or someone sharing living quarters with them, has such a relationship with even 
one person living in a foreign country, this factor alone is sufficient to create the potential 
for foreign influence and could potentially result in the compromise of classified 
information. See ISCR Case No. 08 -02864 at 4-5 (App. Bd. Dec. 29, 2009) ( discussing 
problematic visits of that applicant’s father to Iran). 
Not every foreign contact or tie presents the heightened risk under AG ¶ 7(a). The 
“heightened risk” denotes a risk greater than the normal risk inherent in having a family 
member living under a foreign government. The nature and strength of the ties and t he 
country involved (i.e., the nature of its government, its relationship with the United States, 
and its human rights record) are relevant in assessing whether there is a likelihood of 
vulnerability to coercion. “[T]he nature of the foreign government involved, and the 
intelligence-gathering history of that government are among the important considerations 
that provide context for the other record evidence and must be brought to bear on the 
Judge’s ultimate conclusions in the case. The country’s human rights record is another 
important consideration.” ISCR Case No. 16-02435 at 3 (App. Bd. May 15, 2018) (citing 
ISCR Case No. 15 -00528 at 3 (App. Bd. Mar. 13, 2017)). These factors are relevant in 
assessing the likelihood that an applicant’s family members or friends living in that country 
are vulnerable to government coercion or inducement. 
The risk of coercion, persuasion, or duress is significantly greater if the foreign 
country has an authoritarian government, the government ignores the rule of law including 
widely accepted civil liberties, a family member is associated with or dependent upon the 
government, the government is engaged in a counterinsurgency, terrorism causes a 
substantial amount of death or property damage, or the country is known to conduct 
intelligence collection operations against the United States. The situation in Niger 
involving terrorists, insurgents, and criminals in that country places a significant burden 
of persuasion on Applicant to demonstrate that his relationships with anyone living in that 
country does not pose a security risk. Applicant should not be placed into a position where 
10 
 
 
 
   
 
     
  
  
   
  
 
    
   
      
   
 
 
    
     
     
   
    
      
    
 
  
 
 
   
   
     
   
 
  
    
    
  
 
   
     
 
 
 
  
      
     
   
he might be forced to choose between the protection of classified information and 
concerns about assisting someone living in Niger. 
The issue under Guideline B is whether Applicant has ties or contacts with W1, 
who lives in Niger, which raise security concerns because those ties and contacts create 
a potential vulnerability that criminals, or terrorists could seek to exploit in an effort to get 
unauthorized access to U.S. classified information that he has by virtue of a security 
clearance. Applicant may be vulnerable to influence or pressure exerted on, or through, 
W1. 
International terrorist groups and insurgents are known to conduct intelligence 
activities as effectively as capable state intelligence services, and Niger has a significant 
problem with terrorism and crime. W1 lives in Niger and his relationship with her “could 
be a means through which Applicant comes to the attention of those who seek U.S. 
information or technology and who would attempt to exert coercion upon him.” ADP Case 
No. 14-01655 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 9, 2015) (citing ISCR Case No. 14- 02950 at 3 (App . 
Bd. May 14, 2015)). 
Applicant’s relationship with W1 creates a potential conflict of interest because 
terrorists, insurgents, or criminals could place pressure on her to attempt to cause 
Applicant to compromise classified information. This relationship creates “a heightened 
risk of foreign inducement, manipulation, pressure, or coercion” under AG ¶ 7. The record 
contains substantial evidence of Applicant’s relationship with W1, her residence in Niger, 
and of violence and criminal activity in Niger.  
A key factor in the AG ¶ 8(b) analysis is Applicant’s “deep and longstanding 
relationships and loyalties in the U.S.” His relationship with the United States must be 
weighed against the potential conflict of interest created by his connections to Niger . 
Applicant was born, raised, and educated in the United States. His spouse and children 
are U.S. citizens. He is an Air Force retiree, and is receiving retirement pay. His annual 
income from his DOD contractor employment is about $120,000. He owns a home in the 
United States. 
These factors are balanced against the security concerns outlined in the SOR. 
Applicant’s access to classified information could add risk to W1. There is no allegation 
that he would choose to help the terrorists or criminals against the interests of the United 
States. A Guideline B adjudication is not a judgment on an applicant’s character or loyalty 
to the United States. It is a determination as to whether an applicant’s circumstances 
foreseeably present a security risk. See ISCR Case No. 19-00831 at 5 (App. Bd. July 29, 
2020). The concern here pertains to the risk to W1, who is living in Niger, and how that 
risk could be used to coerce Applicant. It does not relate to his loyalty or patriotism to the 
United States. 
Applicant has not rebutted the concern arising from his relationship with W1. His 
payments to her until December 2023 even though he knew his spouse would be hurt by 
that information is a factor indicating the degree of his care and concern for W1. His 
connections to the United States, taken together, are strong; however, they are 
11 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
    
   
 
 
 
    
    
 
 
 
   
   
    
   
 
  
 
 
insufficient to overcome the foreign influence security concerns under Guideline B relating 
to SOR ¶ 1.a. 
Personal Conduct  
AG ¶ 15 explains why personal conduct is a security concern stating: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect 
classified information. Of special interest is any failure to provide truthful 
and candid answers during the security clearance process or any other 
failure to cooperate with the security clearance process. . . . 
AG ¶ 16 provides two personal conduct conditions that could raise a security 
concern and may be disqualifying as follows. 
(d) credible adverse information that is not explicitly covered under any  
other
 guideline  and may not be sufficient by itself for an adverse  
determination,  but which, when c ombined with all available information,  
supports a whole- person assessment of  questionable judgment,  
untrustworthiness,  unreliability, lack of candor, unwillingness to  comply with  
rules and regulations,  or other characteristics indicating that  the individual  
may  not properly safeguard classified or sensitive information. This  
includes, but is not  limited to, consideration of:  (1) untrustworthy or  
unreliable behavior  . . . ;  and  
(e) personal conduct,  or c oncealment  of information about one's conduct,  
that  creates a  vulnerability to exploitation,  manipulation,  or duress by a  
foreign intelligence entity or  other individual  or group.  
AG ¶¶ 16
(d) and 16(e) are established for SOR ¶ 2.a. No disqualifying conditions 
are established for SOR ¶ 2.b because he disclosed his adulterous affair s in Belize and 
Niger to his spouse. Additional discussion concerning SOR ¶ 2.a is in the personal 
conduct mitigation section, infra. 
AG ¶ 17 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns in this case: 
(a) the individual made prompt, good- fai
 th efforts to correct the omission,  
concealment,  or falsification before being confronted with the facts;  
(b) the refusal or failure to cooperate, omission, or concealment was caused  
or s
ignificantly contributed to by  advice of legal counsel  or of  a person with  
professional responsibilities for advising or instructing the individual  
specifically concerning security processes. Upon being made aware of the  
requirement to cooperate or  provide the information, the individual  
cooperated fully  and truthfully;  
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
(c) the offense is so minor, or so much time has passed, or the behavior is  
so i
nfrequent, or it happened under such unique circumstances that it is  
unlikely to recur  and  does not cast doubt  on the individual's reliability,  
trustworthiness, or  good judgment;  
(d) the individual has acknowledged the behavior and obtained counseling  
to c
hange the behavior or taken other positive steps to alleviate the  
stressors, circumstances, or factors that  contributed to untrustworthy,  
unreliable, or  other inappropriate behavior, and such behavior is  unlikely to  
recur;  
(e) the individual has  ta ken positive steps to reduce or eliminate vulnerability  
to exploitation,  manipulation, or duress; and  
(f) the information was unsubstantiated or from a source of questionable  
re
liability.  
None of the mitigating conditions  fully apply. Applicant  showed poor  judgment  
when he engaged in the intimate relationship with W1 and then made payments to her  
until  December 2023.  He revealed his relationship with W1 to his spouse in 2021, and he  
continued to make payments to her until December 2023. Applicant’s statement s  at his  
hearing about the magnitude of his payments to W1 were vague.  His rationale for the  
payments was  charity  because she needed the money.  This explanation l acks  credibility.  
His payments  and connections to her  may have exposed her to  dangers from criminals  
and terrorists.  Moreover,  Applicant did not provide any evidence that he disclosed his  
sexual  relationships with W1 and W2 and cash payments  to them  to his children, co -
workers, and friends.  Information about  his relationships with W1 and W2 could adversely  
affect  Applicant’s standing among his  children, friends, and co-workers.  He continues to  
be vulnerable to coercion because he desires to keep his relationships with W1 and W 2  
secret  to protect his personal and professional reputation. See  ISCR Case No. 20-01142  
at 3, 5 (App.  Bd. Jan. 11, 2023).  
N
one of the mitigating conditions fully apply. Personal conduct security concerns 
are not mitigated. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
Applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the Applicant’s 
conduct and all the circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
13 
 
 
 
       
 
   
 
   
 
    
 
  
   
  
 
  
   
   
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
    
    
 
 
  
 
 
  
    
 
 
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.   
Under AG ¶ 2(c), “[t]he ultimate determination” of whether to grant a security 
clearance “must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines” and the whole-person concept. My comments under Guidelines B and 
E are incorporated in my whole- person analysis. Some of the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) were 
addressed under those guidelines but some warrant additional comment. 
Applicant is 58 years old, and he has been employed as a logistics specialist for a 
DOD contractor since 2008. He served in the Air Force from 1986 to 2006, including more 
than 12 years overseas. He honorably retired from the Air Force as a master sergeant. 
He received numerous Air Force awards , letters, and certificates of appreciation, 
recognition, training, and congratulation. He served on multiple deployments as a 
contractor in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other places in which there was a risk of injury or 
death. He received excellent performance evaluations, and he provided three statements 
which praised his good character. His whole-person evidence provides important support 
for approval of his access to classified information. 
The reasons for denying Applicant’s security clearance are more persuasive. A 
Guideline B decision concerning Niger must take into consideration the geopolitical 
situation and dangers in that country. See ISCR Case No. 04-02630 at 3 (App. Bd. May 
23, 2007) (remanding because of insufficient discussion of geopolitical situation and 
suggesting expansion of whole-person discussion); ISCR Case No. 02-26130 at 3 (App. 
Bd. Dec. 7, 2006) (reversing grant of security clearance because of terrorist activity in the 
West Bank). Niger is a dangerous place because of violence from terrorists, insurgents, 
and criminals. Terrorists and criminals in Niger continue to threaten the interests of the 
United States, residents of Niger, and those who cooperate and assist the United States. 
Applicant  had frequent contacts  with W1,  a resident  of Niger. He provided financial  
support  to her  until December 2023.  He is emotionally connected to her.  Additional  
discussion is in the analysis section,  supra. Applicant  did not meet  his burden of showing  
that  their  relationship was  unlikely to come to the attention of those interested in acquiring  
U.S. classified information.  “Application  of  the guidelines is  not a comment on an  
applicant’s patriotism  but  merely an acknowledgment that  [he] may act in unpredictable  
ways when faced with choices that could be important” to W1. See Generally  ISCR Case  
No. 17-01979 at 5 (App. Bd. July  31,  2019).  
It is well settled that once a concern arises regarding an applicant’s security 
clearance eligibility, there is a strong presumption against granting a security clearance. 
See Dorfmont, 913 F. 2d at 1401. I have carefully applied the law, as set forth in Egan , 
Exec. Or. 10865, the Directive, the AGs, and the Appeal Board’s jurisprudence to the 
facts and circumstances in the context of the whole person. Applicant failed to mitigate 
foreign influence and personal conduct security concerns. 
14 
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
_________________________ 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline B:   
  
Subparagraph 1.a:   
Subparagraph 1.b:  
AGAINST APPLICANT   
Against Applicant  
For Applicant  
P
aragraph 2, Guideline E:    
Subparagraph 2.a:   
Subparagraph 2.b:   
AGAINST APPLICANT   
Against  Applicant  
For  Applicant  
C
onclusion  
Considering all the circumstances in this case, it is not clearly consistent with the 
interests of national security to grant Applicant eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility 
for access to classified information is denied. 
Mark Harvey 
Administrative Judge 
15 