 
 
 
 
 
 
                                     
                          
                      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
     DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS  
  
    
           
             
          
            
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
     
 
 
 
       
       
       
      
       
         
  
 
        
         
           
       
EA 
c; 
... 7 
o _.~ .t::~! ~ o 
\\ 
00 
In  the  matter of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR  Case No.  23-00729  
 )  
Applicant for Security Clearance  )  
Appearances  
For Government: John Lynch, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Dan Meyer, Esq. 
03/28/2025 
Decision  
GARCIA, Candace Le’i, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to mitigate the personal conduct security concerns. Eligibility for 
access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
On September 29, 2023, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline E (personal 
conduct). The action was taken under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; D OD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines (AG ) implemented by 
DOD on June 8, 2017. 
Applicant responded to the SOR (Answer) on October 9, 2023 , and requested a 
hearing before an administrative judge. The case was assigned to me on May 3, 2024. 
The Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a notice of hearing (NOH) 
on June 26, 2024 , scheduling the hearing for August 7, 2024. I granted Applicant’s 
1 
 
 
 
          
      
   
 
      
         
        
  
   
 
 
          
             
            
             
            
        
    
 
 
 
        
        
   
 
          
  
 
          
         
           
       
         
  
 
            
         
            
         
request for a continuance and the hearing was canceled on August 2, 2024. DOHA issued 
another NOH on August 6, 2024, rescheduling the hearing fo r September 4, 2024 . I 
convened the hearing as rescheduled. 
At the hearing, Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 4 and Applicant’s Exhibits 
(AE) A through E were admitted without objection. Department Counsel called one 
witness telephonically on the Government’s behalf. Applicant testified and did not call any 
other witnesses. Neither party requested to keep the record open and the record closed. 
DOHA received the hearing transcript (Tr.) on September 13, 2024. 
SOR Amendment  
At the hearing and pursuant to ¶ E3.1.17 of the Directive , without objection, I 
granted Department Counsel’s motion to amend SOR ¶ 1.b to conform to the evidence 
by striking on line 2 the word “rework” and replacing it with “reinvestigate;” by substituting 
on line 3 the date “January 7, 2020” for the date “June 20, 2020;” by striking on line 3 the 
word “rework” and replacing it with “reinvestigate;” and by deleting on line 4 the words 
“between about July 7, 2020 and about March 31, 2021.” (Tr. 8-9) SOR ¶ 1.b w as 
therefore amended to read as follows: 
Because  of  the  problems noted  in  subparagraph  1.a,  above,  the  Defense  
Counterintelligence  and  Security Agency’s Office of the   Inspector General  
had  to  reinvestigate  the  investigations you  had  worked  on  between  January 
7, 2020  and  April 8, 2021. During  the  reinvestigation  it was determined  that  
on  various occasions you  had  falsified  [Reports of Investigation] ROIs  by  
stating that you had interviewed someone when you had  not.   
Findings of Fact  
Applicant admitted both SOR allegations in her Answer. Despite her admission to 
SOR ¶ 1.b, she denied the underlying conduct and maintained she did not falsify ROIs , 
as alleged. (Tr. 126-136) 
Applicant is 40 years old. She has never married and she has one child, age 17. 
(Tr. 8-9, 78; GE 1-2) 
Applicant graduated from high school in 2003. She earned a Certified Nursing 
Assistant certification in approximately 2007. She also earned three associate degrees in 
2017 and a bachelor’s degree in business administration in 2021. She expected to earn 
a master’s degree in business administration in December 2024 and to begin a doctorate 
program in business administration in January 2025. (Tr. 5-6, 56, 76-79, 107-121, 142; 
GE 1-3; AE C, AE E) 
Applicant worked as a nursing assistant from 2007 to 2012. She was unemployed 
from June 2012 to April 2013. She worked for various non-defense contractors from 2013 
to 2017. She then briefly worked as a judicial clerk for a county district court in 2017, when 
she was terminated for lacking the necessary skills to perform the job. She was 
2 
 
 
 
           
   
  
 
       
       
        
           
          
  
 
 
 
       
        
          
          
           
     
      
          
 
            
         
           
     
   
 
      
      
     
     
 
      
     
         
       
   
 
    
   
unemployed a second time from May 2017 to September 2017. She briefly worked for a 
federal agency on a temporary contract later in 2017. (Tr. 5-6, 56, 76-79, 107-121, 142; 
GE 1-3; AE C, AE E) 
In November 2017, Applicant began working as a background investigator for 
defense contractor A . She was promoted to Field Investigator 2 in April 2018. She 
continued to work for the company when it was acquired by defense contractor B in June 
2018. She was promoted to Investigator 3 in September 2018 and she resigned from the 
employment in April 2021, as further discussed below. (Tr. 5-6, 56, 74-76, 78-81, 85-86, 
96-97, 110-121; GE 1-4; AE C, AE E) 
Applicant was unemployed  a  third  time  from  April 2021  until a  date  not in the  
record. She  works  for a  company that delivers laundry bags. In  December 2021, she  was  
offered  employment  as a  senior program  management  analyst for  defense  contractor C  
but could not begin  the  job  due  to  issues with  her  security clearance.  As of the  date  of  the  
hearing, she had  another  offer of employment,  from  defense  contractor D,  contingent  on  
obtaining  a  security  clearance.  She  was first  granted  a  security clearance  in 2017.  (Tr. 5-
6, 56, 93-96, 106-107, 121-123, 142-144; GE  1-3; AE C, AE E)  
The SOR alleged Applicant was suspended from employment as a federal 
background investigator for defense contractor B in March 2021, after it was discovered 
she routinely submitted on their due dates “placeholder” ROIs that contained little to no 
information, after which time she would contact personnel from the Investigator Help 
Team to have the placeholder ROIs deleted and then transmitted her completed ROIs. 
Applicant’s employer reviewed her ROIs after her suspension and noted numerous 
instances of lifting in the source testimony sections, failure to report issues involving illegal 
drugs and foreign travel, relatives, and contacts, and record inconsistencies. (SOR ¶ 1.a) 
The SOR also alleged that, due to the problems noted in SOR ¶ 1.a, the Office of 
the Inspector General of a U.S. Government agency (Agency) had to re investigate the 
investigations Applicant worked on between June 20, 2020, and April 8, 2021. During the 
reinvestigation, Agency determined Applicant falsified ROIs on various occasions by 
stating she had interviewed someone when, in fact, she had not. (SOR ¶ 1.b) 
The SOR allegations are established by Applicant’s admissions in her Answer; her 
December 2021 security clearance application (SCA); her September 2023 response to 
interrogatories; Agency records; Applicant’s hearing testimony; and the testimony of the 
Government’s witness. (Answer; Tr. at 17-70, 126-136; GE 1, 3-4; AE C) 
Agency records reflect that it received an alert on March 30, 2021, which indicated 
that Applicant’s then -field manager had some concerns of “assigned completion date 
(ACD) manipulation” by Applicant. Her then-employer investigated it and then conducted 
a five-case sampling at Agency’s request. On May 3, 2021, her then-employer drew the 
following conclusions and proposed actions: 
This sampling found numerous Source testimonies containing instances of 
lifting. Other concerns include possible enhancement, issues obtained but 
3 
 
 
 
 
        
         
      
     
    
            
  
 
 
        
    
         
       
       
         
      
       
 
 
            
     
        
             
     
          
not reported, record inconsistencies and  lack of due  diligence. While  rework 
found  that [Applicant]’s notes fully support her ROIs,  it could be  because  
she  is making  her notes and  ROI  fit the  circumstances of each  case  
requirement. In  her notes, rework found  that  whenever she  reported  
information  that appears to  have  been  lifted, she  wrote  that information  
diagonally in her notes rather than  following  the  horizontally lined  paper. 
This gives the appearance that she is adding  this information  after  the fact.  
It  is hard to  say for sure  which  of these  findings could have  been  connected  
to  the  initiating  concern, as  far as  her reporting  incomplete  reports and  then  
transmitting  full  reports. With  all  the  lifting  found, it is possible  she  was  
padding  or adding  information  after  the  fact.  Since  we  only looked  at five  
cases and  considering  the  amount of lifting  and  irregularities in the  
reporting, it alludes  to  a  possible  larger concern. Therefore[,]  it would benefit  
us to look at more of her work. . . .  (GE 4)  
On May 7, 2021, Agency assumed the investigation into Applicant. Agency staff, 
consisting of 19 Agency personnel and 13 agents, conducted rework from June 20, 2020, 
to Applicant’s resignation date of April 8, 2021, and completed the rework on September 
9, 2021. Approximately 2,323 labor hours were involved in the Agency’s rework and 
recovery effort at a total cost of $164,046 , for which a contractual offset was completed . 
(Tr. 17-70; GE 3) The federal rework found 5 falsified sources, 280 validated, and 130 
undetermined, detailed as follows: 
•  5 [employment  (EPML)]  sources  stated  they were  never interviewed  by  
[Applicant].  
•  [Agency]  categorized  the  “undetermined” as all  items which  the  source  
or record provided did not recall the interview or declined to  participate.  
•  18  items/sources categorized  as  “validated” required  case  corrections.  
These items developed issue information  as well as additional activities  
that should have  been  reported. (Tr.  42-45; GE  4)  
The Government’s witness (W1), who has worked for Agency since September 
2005, has served as a supervisory investigator since 2009. Her responsibilities include 
overseeing and assuring the integrity of background investigations for individuals who are 
either employed by or seeking employment with federal agencies or defense contractors. 
She testified that contract background investigators receive access to the Investigator 
Handbook, which lists things that personnel are prohibited from doing. She also testified 
that all background investigations must comply with Federal Investigative Standards, and 
if a background investigation contains false information, the full investigation becomes 
suspect. (Tr. 17-70) 
W1 directed and performed oversight of the investigation into Applicant. W1 stated 
that Applicant’s then -employer’s field manager had concerns after discovering a 
placeholder scheme in which Applicant would transmit a placeholder report, which is a 
report that had little to no information within the testimonies for the sources , to meet an 
ACD. (Tr. 17-70) She stated, “[Applicant] would transmit [placeholder reports] close to 
midnight on [the ACD’s] and then call the contractor’s investigator help team the following 
4 
 
 
 
           
    
 
 
 
        
          
        
             
     
           
       
         
   
 
 
 
  
 
morning to request that the report be deleted so she could potentially transmit more 
information at a later date. Basically[,] a shell report.” (Tr. 27) 
W1  defined  the  terms “ghost writing,” “lifting,” “enhancement,” and  “issues obtained  
but  not reported,” reflected   in the  May  3,  2021,  report. “Ghost  writing”  occurs when  an  
investigator reports the  testimony for reports  that were never actually conducted  or for  
interviews that  did  not actually take  place. “Lifting”  occurs  when  an  investigator conducted  
an  interview but is missing  specific points of information  or failed  to  obtain  specific details  
from  a  source or record,  so  the  investigator  pulls  that information  from  the  case  papers  
provided  by the  subject  of that investigation. It  is considered  a  type  of material falsification  
because  the  investigator did not  directly obtain that information  from  the  source or  
records. (Tr. 32) “Enhancement”  occurs when an investigator adds details or information  
to  the  report that  was not obtained  from  a  source  or  record.  It  is also considered  a  material  
falsification.  (Tr. 33) “Issues obtained   but not reported” constitutes an  omission, i.e.,  
another form  of material falsification, where known issues are  left out of a  report. It  is  
usually done  to  avoid the  need  for additional issue  resolution  in  that case. (Tr. 32-35, 39-
41)  
W1 stated that Applicant, by transmitting placeholder reports, essentially made it 
look like her reports were done on time. In doing so, W1 stated that Applicant falsified her 
reports because she was certifying that the information she was transmitting in her reports 
were complete and accurate at the time of transmission. W1 stated that if it is discovered 
that a contractor has filed shell reports, the contractor is immediately suspended or 
removed for the falsification. (Tr. 17 -70) W1 also stated there were seven instances, 
between the period January 7, 2020, and early April 2021, where it was confirmed during 
both the rework and recovery investigations that Applicant wrote in a report she had 
interviewed someone when she had not. (Tr. 47, 49, 54, 58) 
Applicant testified  she  transmitted  an  estimated  five  to  eight cases da ily or  
approximately 25  cases weekly  and  she  pulled  around  20  to  30  records weekly  as an  
Investigator 3. (Tr. 74-76, 79-90, 96- 97)  She  admitted  to  submitting  reports  of  
investigation (ROIs)  and then reopening them, which she  acknowledged was wrong. (Tr.  
86, 88-90, 97-99, 102-105,  123-136)  Despite  her admissions in her Answer, she  denied  
listing  that she  interviewed  someone  without having  done  so, or putting  information  in her 
reports that were  not  told to  her.  (Tr. 86-88, 97-99, 102-103,  105-106,  126-136; GE  3;  AE  
C)  She  stated, “What I  did not admit to  was ever making  up  a  source  and  submitting  a  
report for that source.  I’ve  never done  that.”  (Tr. 90-91)  She  stated  that as an  Investigator  
3, she  was under pressure by her field manager to  meet her ACD  dates  because  of the  
scrutiny the  company was facing  during  the  COVID-19  pandemic  and  the  importance  of  
meeting  their  metrics. (Tr. 135-136)  
Applicant testified: 
Well, first of all, I want to  be  100  percent honest with  you. Did  I transmit  
reports and  reopen  them  to  myself?  Absolutely. Yes, I did. And  was 
sometimes that  reason  was to,  so  that I didn’t  miss  my  date?  Yes.  That  is  
true. Lots  of  investigators do  it.  You  don’t  want to  miss your date.  So  I would  
5 
 
 
 
    
 
          
      
       
       
     
        
     
         
             
         
    
        
               
     
          
  
 
         
          
        
          
      
        
    
             
        
  
 
             
        
   
          
          
          
           
       
              
 
   
        
      
    
       
       
       
submit the report. I would submit part of it, not the whole report. But I would 
submit the report and then yes, reopen it to me the next day. But it was not 
because I had not interviewed the person, spoke to the person or talked to 
them. I had their report. I just had so many contracts , and so many reports 
to type a day. I just became overwhelmed. I became overwhelmed. And 
when my mother told me that she had cancer it was a lot. I also had a 
daughter at that time. I was a single mother. And COVID was going on, 
which they had no proper protocol when COVID hit. They were scrambling. 
The company was a mess. They were, they didn’t know what to do with us. 
Because the truth is we very rarely are able to conduct interviews over the 
phone. We have to go in person for conduct reasons, which mean we need 
to go to federal buildings and organizations to do these inte rviews. When 
COVID hit these buildings shut down. They were closed. There was no way 
for me to come to the Court and pull records from the Court. There was no 
way for me to go to [. . . ] and talk to a supervisor and a coworker. . . . I didn’t 
want to go out and interview them. They didn’t want to be interviewed, and 
I didn’t want to go out. I have lupus, and my daughter was born with cancer. 
I wasn’t, I didn’t want to go out and be close to anyone. . . . (Tr. 97-99) 
Applicant reported in her SCA and maintained at her hearing that she left 
employment with defense contractor B because she wanted to focus on completing 
school, her health, and her family. She submitted her resignation to her then-employer by 
email on March 25, 2021. Her supervisor emailed her on March 26, 2021 , to begin out-
processing. She continued to work until April 1, 2021 , when her suspension took effect 
and continued until her last day of employment on April 8, 2021 , the effective date in 
which her employer accepted her resignation. She stated she did not list her suspension 
on her SCA due to oversight. She further stated she was unaware of the Agency 
investigation until she was informed she could not onboard with defense contractor C due 
to issues with her clearance. (Tr. 56, 92-96, 99-101, 104-105, 136-142; GE 3; AE C) 
From 2017 to 2021, Applicant received training related to her job as a background 
investigator, which included integrity-related concerns, code of conduct, and ethics. She 
did not have any other issues while employed by defense contractors A or B. She stated 
that she has learned her lesson and if she cannot meet a deadline in the future, she will 
be honest and simply state that she cannot meet the deadline. (Tr. 96. 123, 142-144; GE 
3; AE C) She needs her clearance to onboard with defense contractor D , stating, 
“Absolutely. In fact, my livelihood hinge[s] on it. In order for me to onboard -- I'm still off 
work. And have been off work since my last day, which was 4/8/2021. (Tr. 106-107) She 
maintained, however, that she was not vulnerable to exploitation and that “No one could 
in any way use this as leverage.” (Tr. 101) 
A number of c haracter references attested to Applicant’s reliability and 
trustworthiness. These included a former team member from 2013 to 2017 at a previous 
place of employment, a former coworker of over three years at defense contractor A, a 
former coworker of four years at defense contractors A and B, and a close friend of five 
years. The former coworker at defense contractors A and B wrote, “[Applicant] was not 
only able to juggle approximately six different contracts while holding . . . security 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
      
        
      
         
   
 
          
     
         
          
     
       
         
         
     
  
  
        
        
       
      
         
 
           
        
    
              
      
       
           
          
        
            
       
   
 
 
 
 
 
clearances, but she  navigated  these  tasks effortlessly and  seamlessly with  very little help,  
instructions, or guidance.” (AE  D)  He continued, “It was of no  surprise  to  me  as I watched  
her during  our time  together with  both  companies go  from  an  Investigator I to  an  
Investigator III, her success was phenomenal.” (Tr. 103-104; AE D)   
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number o f variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, re liable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 
2(b) requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national 
security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Section 7 of E xec. Or. 
10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the national interest and shall 
in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” See also 
Exec. Or. 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access to classified or 
sensitive information). 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis  
Guideline E, Personal Conduct 
AG ¶ 15 expresses the security concern for personal conduct: 
Conduct involving  questionable judgment, lack of candor,  dishonesty,  or  
unwillingness to  comply with  rules and  regulations can  raise  questions  
about an  individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and  ability to  protect  
classified  or sensitive  information.  Of  special interest is any  failure to  
cooperate  or provide  truthful and  candid answers during  national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes.   
AG ¶ 16 describes conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying. I considered the following relevant: 
(a) deliberate  omission, concealment,  or falsification  of relevant facts from  
any personnel  security questionnaire, personal history statement,  or similar  
form  used  to  conduct investigations,  determine  employment qualifications,  
award  benefits or status, determine  national security eligibility or 
trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities;  
(c) credible  adverse information  in several adjudicative issue  areas  that is  
not sufficient for an  adverse determination  under any other single guideline,  
but which, when  considered  as a  whole, supports a  whole-person  
assessment  of  questionable  judgment, untrustworthiness,  unreliability, lack  
of candor, unwillingness to  comply  with  rules and  regulations,  or other 
characteristics indicating  that  the  individual  may  not properly safeguard  
classified or sensitive information;   
(d) credible  adverse information  that is not  explicitly covered  under any  
other guideline  and  may  not  be  sufficient by itself for an  adverse  
determination, but which, when  combined  with  all  available  information,  
supports a  whole-person  assessment of questionable judgment,  
untrustworthiness, unreliability, lack of candor, unwillingness to  comply with  
rules and  regulations, or other characteristics  indicating  that the  individual  
may not  properly safeguard classified  or sensitive  information. This  
includes, but is not limited to, consideration of:  
(1) untrustworthy or unreliable behavior to  include  breach  of client 
confidentiality,  release  of proprietary information, unauthorized  
release  of sensitive corporate or government protected information;  
(3) a pattern of dishonesty or rule violations; and  
(4) evidence  of  significant  misuse  of  Government  or other employer's  
time  or resources.  
8 
 
 
 
 
       
      
         
          
      
      
         
        
         
       
           
  
         
  
 
 
 
 
 
(e) personal conduct,  or concealment of information  about one’s conduct,  
that creates a  vulnerability to  exploitation, manipulation, or duress by a  
foreign  intelligence  entity or other  individual or group.  Such  conduct  
includes:  . .  .  (1) engaging  in activities which, if known,  could affect the  
person’s personal, professional, or community standing.  
Applicant was suspended from employment as a federal background investigator 
in March 2021, after she routinely submitted on their due dates placeholder ROIs that 
contained little to no information, after which time she would contact personnel from the 
Investigator Help Team to have the placeholder ROIs deleted a nd then transmitted her 
completed ROIs. Her then-employer, who reviewed her ROIs after her suspension, noted 
numerous instances of lifting in the source testimony sections, failure to report issue s 
involving drug and foreign travel, relatives, and contacts, and record inconsistencies . As 
a result, the Agency Office of Inspector General reinvestigated the investigations 
Applicant worked on between June 20, 2020, and April 8, 2021 , and determined that 
Applicant falsified ROIs on various occasions by stating she had interviewed someone 
when, in fact, she had not. I find that AG ¶ ¶ 16(a), 16(c), 16(d)(1), 16(d)3, 16(d)(4) and 
16(e)(1) all apply. 
AG ¶ 17 describes the following conditions that could mitigate the personal conduct 
security concerns: 
(a) the  individual made  prompt,  good-faith  efforts to  correct the  omission,  
concealment,  or falsification  before being confronted with the facts;  
(b) the  refusal or failure  to  cooperate, omission, or concealment was caused  
or significantly contributed to  by advice  of  legal counsel or of a  person  with  
professional responsibilities for  advising  or instructing  the  individual  
specifically concerning  security processes. Upon  being  made  aware of the  
requirement  to  cooperate  or provide  the  information,  the  individual 
cooperated fully and truthfully;  
(c) the  offense  is so  minor, or so  much  time  has passed, or the  behavior is 
so  infrequent, or it happened  under such  unique  circumstances that it is 
unlikely to  recur and  does  not cast  doubt  on  the  individual’s  reliability,  
trustworthiness, or good judgment;   
(d) the  individual has acknowledged  the  behavior and  obtained  counseling  
to  change  the  behavior or taken  other positive steps to  alleviate  the  
stressors, circumstances, or  factors that  contributed  to  untrustworthy, 
unreliable, or other inappropriate behavior, and such  behavior is unlikely to  
recur;  
(e) the  individual has taken  positive  steps to  reduce  or eliminate  vulnerability 
to exploitation, manipulation, or duress;  and  
9 
 
 
 
 
      
    
       
      
            
           
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
       
       
         
       
          
         
      
    
 
 
        
    
 
     
 
   
 
 
(f)  the  information  was unsubstantiated  or from  a  source of questionable  
reliability.  
The record evidence, the testimony of the Government’s witness, and Applicant’s 
testimony raise doubts about Applicant’s reliability, trustworthiness, and judgment. 
Applicant did not disclose , at the very least, that she was knowingly transmitting 
placeholder ROIs to meet deadlines. Despite her denial that she falsified ROIs on various 
occasions by stating she had interviewed someone when, in fact, she had not, the record 
evidence demonstrates otherwise. I did not find Applicant to be candid or credible at the 
hearing. Her testimony was inconsistent, in contradiction of the record evidence, and not 
credible in light of the record evidence. None of the above mitigating conditions apply. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the  whole-person  concept,  the  administrative judge  must  evaluate  an  
applicant’s eligibility for a  security clearance  by considering  the  totality of the  applicant’s  
conduct and  all  relevant circumstances.  The  administrative  judge  should  consider the  
nine  adjudicative  process factors listed at AG  ¶  2(d):  
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  
and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct;  
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation  or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. I considered the potentially 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances 
surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under Guideline E in my whole-
person analysis. Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts as to 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. I conclude Applicant failed to 
mitigate the personal conduct security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline E: AGAINST APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a  - 1.b: Against  Applicant  
10 
 
 
 
 Conclusion  
 
             
       
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant’s eligibility for a security 
clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Candace Le’i Garcia 
Administrative Judge 
11 