          
__________ 
__________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
. ) ISCR Case No. 23-00642 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Adrienne Driskill, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
03/27/2025 
Decision 
TUIDER, Robert, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to mitigate security concerns regarding Guideline F (financial 
considerations). Clearance is denied. 
Statement of the Case 
On April 6, 2022 , Applicant submitted a Questionnaire for National Security 
Positions (SF-86). On April 4, 2023, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
(DCSA) Consolidated Adjudication Services (CAS) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) 
to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline F. The SOR detailed reasons 
why the CAS was unable to find that it is clearly consistent with the national interest to 
grant or continue a security clearance for Applicant . On April 20, 2023, Applicant 
submitted his response to the SOR. 
On July 10, 2023, Department Counsel was ready to proceed. On July 14, 2023, 
the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) assigned the case to me. By email 
dated July 26, 2023, Applicant waived his right to have 15 days’ notice from the date of 
notice to date of hearing. (Hearing Exhibit (HE I). On July 26, 2023, DOHA issued a Notice 
1 
   
   
      
   
     
 
         
    
 
of Hearing scheduling the hearing for July 27, 2023 . The hearing was convened as 
scheduled. 
Department Counsel offered Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 6, which I 
admitted without objection. Applicant testified, did not call any witnesses, and did not offer 
any documentary evidence. I held the record open until September 29, 2023, to afford 
Applicant an opportunity to submit evidence. He did not submit any post -hearing 
evidence. On August 4, 2023, DOHA received the hearing transcript (Tr.). 
Findings of Fact 
Background Information 
Applicant is a 47-year-old diving construction laborer employed by a defense 
contractor since January 2022. He is a first time applicant for a security clearance and is 
unsure whether obtaining a clearance is a requirement of his continued employment. (Tr. 
13-19; GE 1) 
Applicant received his high school diploma in June 1995. He attended college “for 
a year . . . over 20 years (ago).” (Tr. 20-21) Applicant did not serve in the U.S. Armed 
Forces. (GE 1) He married in February 2006, and at the time of his hearing had been 
separated from his wife since April/Ma y 2020 or about three years . Applicant has a 
daughter and a son, both minors, from his marriage and he has full custody of them. He 
also has an adult daughter from a previous relationship. Applicant’s estranged wife lives 
in a nearby state. (Tr. 21-24, 26, 28) 
Applicant’s wife  filed  for divorce  in February 2023 after they separated, and divorce 
proceedings were delayed because of a defective service of process. As of his hearing, 
Applicant had  not retained  a  divorce lawyer stating, “I’m  supporting  my children.” (Tr. 24-
25, 32) 
Financial Considerations 
Applicant’s 12 delinquent SOR debts are established by his April 6, 2022 SF-86; 
his OPM Report of Investigation, Summarized Results of Applicant’s Personal Subject 
Interview (PSI) conducted on July 13, 2022 with follow -on contact; his Response to 
Interrogatory dated December 5, 2022; his April 21, 2022, December 19, 2022, and March 
29, 20 23 Credit Bureau Reports; and his April 20, 2023 SOR Answer. (GE 1 -6; SOR 
Answer) To all 12 delinquent SOR debts, Applicant responded, “I ADMIT, CURRENTLY 
DISPUTING IN DIVORCE COURT.” (SOR Answer) 
Applicant attributed his financial problems to his pending separation and divorce. 
He explained that while he was married, he deposited his paychecks into a joint account 
and his estranged wife “handled the finances.” As a result of his wife’s behavior , he 
“started seeing that there was mental illness.” That behavior raised concerns about the 
safety of their children. While living on the East Coast, Applicant had his wife placed in a 
72-hour hold three times because of her behavior. The “courts got involved” and his wife 
2 
 
 
    
    
     
 
  
    
was ordered to undergo a psychological evaluation and she “was pre-diagnosed with 
schizophrenia, bipolar.” Applicant stated his wife endangered their children by doing such 
things as “trying to throw [their] daughter out of a four-story building” and attacking their 
son. It got to the point where Applicant was required to sleep with his children behind 
locked doors to protect them from their mother. Applicant added during this timeframe , 
“she put me in a lot of this debt.” (Tr. 28, 33-35) When Applicant and his wife separated, 
they were living on the East Coast. After his estranged wife left, Applicant and his children 
moved back to the West Coast to be near his family. As noted, his wife moved to a nearby 
West Coast state. (Tr. 26) As of his hearing date, Applicant had full custody of the 
children, and his wife was not allowed visitation rights until she had received treatment 
for her mental illness. As far as Applicant was aware, his wife had not received treatment. 
(Tr. 34) Applicant stated he is “trying to move forward in my life with my children.” (Tr. 35) 
Applicant first realized that his wife was mismanaging their finances in the 2019 
timeframe when one of their cars was repossessed due to non -payment. After that, he 
noticed that his wife was mismanaging their finances. (Tr. 29-30) Applicant’s finances 
remain in a s tate of uncertainty because it has yet to be determined who will be 
responsible for their respective marital debt. (Tr. 32) A pro -bono attorney counseled 
Applicant not to pay any of his marital debts in anticipation of those debts being allocated 
in divorce court. (Tr. 40 -41) Applicant plans to apply for a consolidation loan when he 
knows what his debt burden is , but until he knows what he owes, he cannot apply for a 
loan. He is anxious to repair his credit and regain financial responsibility. (Tr. 42-43) 
Applicant stated the reason for the delay in filing for divorce following their 2020 
separation was due to his wife’s “mental state” and his inability to communicate with her. 
His only means of communicating with her is “through texting.” (Tr. 32) 
Because Applicant’s debts have not yet been allocated in divorce court, none of 
his SOR debts have been paid or otherwise resolved. Summarized, his 12 S OR 
allegations are: 
(1.a) charged-off car loan following voluntary repossession in the amount of 
$10,785. The account was opened in 2018. Applicant was unsure whether this 
repossession was a car he and his wife had while they were married or a car he co-signed 
for his daughter. Applicant has not had an opportunity to look into this particular debt. 
Applicant has not addressed this debt with the creditor. (Tr. 30, 36-40) 
(1.b) collection account owed to an apartment management company in the 
amount of $5,528. The management company claimed Applicant did not give them proper 
notice before leaving their West Coast apartment , “right before COVID .”  Applicant has 
not discussed this debt with the creditor. (Tr. 43-46) 
(1.c) collection account owed to an apartment management company in the 
amount of $3,855. Applicant stated that he had to leave their East Coast apartment before 
the lease expired, “due  to  (his wife’s) mental state  issue.” Applicant has not addressed 
this debt with the creditor. (Tr. 46-48) 
3 
       
     
(1.d) collection credit card account in the amount of $2,353. Applicant was not sure 
about this account stating, “I do  not know. I  believe  that  is something  that my estranged  
wife  might  have  accumulated.”  Applicant has not addressed this debt with the creditor. 
(Tr. 48-49) 
(1.e) collection cell phone account in the amount of $2,170. Applicant and his wife 
switched cell phone companies. He stated that his wife , “got  money from when we 
switched  over  and  she  didn’t pay  it (new cell  phone  company).”  Applicant has not 
addressed this debt with the creditor. (Tr. 49-50) 
(1.f) collection credit card account in the amount of $1,387. Applicant was not sure 
about this account stating, “because  of (his wife’s)  mental state,  things that I didn’t know  
that she may have opened . . . it -- she  ran  all  our finances. I don’t know.” Applicant has  
not addressed this debt with the creditor. (Tr. 50-51) 
(1.g) collection utility account in the amount of $1,374. This utility bill was for a 
house on the East Coast Applicant and his wife were living in before they moved to the ir 
East Coast apartment. He stated his wife was responsible for paying the bills and he did 
not become aware of this bill until it showed up on his credit report. Applicant has not 
addressed this debt with the creditor. (Tr. 52-53) 
(1.h & 1.i) collection medical bills owed to the same creditor in the respective 
amounts of $811 and $623. Applicant was unsure if these bills were for himself, his wife, 
or his children. He stated that he would , “let  the  courts figure  out.” Applicant has not  
addressed this debt with the creditor. (Tr. 53-56) 
(1.j) collection cable bill in the amount of $355. Applicant said this  was for “[a]  
normal cable bill” and that he is willing to pay  it off but has delayed doing so pending the 
outcome of his divorce. Applicant has not addressed this debt with the creditor. (Tr. 56) 
(1.k) collection gas bill in the amount of $75. Applicant has delayed taking further 
action on this debt pending the outcome of his divorce. (Tr. 56-57) 
(1.l) charged-off department store account in the amount of $1,031. Applicant said 
he did not know of this bill until he saw it on his credit report. Applicant has not addressed 
this debt with the creditor. (Tr. 57) 
Applicant is unaware of the motive behind his wife opening up these various 
accounts, but assumed, “that  it could  be  just  creating  credit  so  she  could have  extra.” (Tr.  
58) Applicant’s wife  lost her job during the COVID-19 pandemic and began drawing 
unemployment. Although  he  continued  to  support the  family with  his income, he  “never  
once saw a  dime of that (wife’s unemployment) and  that’s when  finances became  hard.”  
(Tr. 58-59) 
Applicant hoped his divorce would be final by the end of the year, but was uncertain 
whether that would happen depending on “how quickly I’m going to be getting court 
dates.” (Tr. 61) Applicant and his wife have no property. He stated, “The only thing that 
4 
  
 
    
      
 
 
  
she’s really trying to adamantly get is her children, but that’s why I haven’t really [gone] 
and spent extra money so it could go to my children and our livelihood is because I – 
because of the court documents that I got from [East Coast].” (Tr. 61) Applicant has not 
participated in financial counseling. (Tr. 61-62) He emphasized that it was his intention to 
resolve his delinquent debts as soon as a court allocated the respective amounts owed 
by him and his wife through their impending divorce. (Tr. 62) 
Applicant earns about $80,000 to $90,000 a year. He does not own a house, and 
he and his children live with his girlfriend. Applicant does not pay rent to his girlfriend, but 
“help(s) her out with whatever she needs” on an as needed basis. He has a $780 monthly 
car payment for his 2022 Toyota Camry . Applicant does not have any money in his 
savings account and did not know how much he had in his checking account. He added 
that he is a single father and spends all his money on his children. (Tr. 25-28) 
At the conclusion of the hearing, I held the record open to afford Applicant an 
opportunity to submit additional evidence. I suggested that he review his credit reports 
and seek financial counseling. I discussed various evidence that would be helpful for his 
case and the importance of having a plan in place and following through with that plan. 
Applicant acknowledged that getting his clearance was important and that he would follow 
through with my suggestions and addressing his debts. (Tr. 62-78) As noted, Applicant 
did not submit any post-hearing evidence. 
Policies 
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines (AG ), which became 
effective on June 8, 2017. 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in AG ¶ 2, describing the adjudicative process. The administrative 
judge’s over arching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and common sense decision. 
According to AG ¶ 2(c), the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number o f 
variables known as the “whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
5 
   
     
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible  for presenting  “witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or  
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The  applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis 
Financial Considerations 
AG ¶ 18 articulates the security concern for financial considerations: 
Failure to live within one's means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alc ohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
Affluence that cannot be explained by known sources of income is also a 
security con cern insofar as it may result from criminal activity, including 
espionage. 
In ISCR Case No. 08 -12184 at 7 (App. Bd. Jan. 7, 2010), the Appeal Board 
explained: 
6 
    
It is well-settled that adverse information from a credit report can normally 
meet the substantial evidence standard and the government’s obligations 
under [Directive] ¶ E3.1.14 for pertinent allegations. At that point, the burden 
shifts to applicant to establish either that [he or] she is not responsible for 
the debt or that matters in mitigation apply. 
Id. (internal citation omitted). 
AG ¶ 19 provides two disqualifying conditions that could raise a security concern 
and  may be  disqualifying  in this case: “(a) inability to  satisfy debts;” and  “(c) a  history of  
not meeting  financial obligations.” The record established the disqualifying conditions in 
AG ¶¶ 19(a) and 19(c), requiring additional inquiry about the possible applicability of 
mitigating conditions. Discussion of the disqualifying conditions is contained in the 
mitigation section, infra. 
AG ¶ 20 lists five potential mitigating conditions: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred 
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does not cast doubt 
on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment; 
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely beyond 
the person's control (e.g., loss of employment, a business downturn, 
unexpected medical emergency, a death, divorce or separation, clear 
victimization by predatory lending practices, or identity theft), and the 
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances; 
(c) the individual has received or is receiving financial counseling for the 
problem from a legitimate and credible source, such as a non-profit credit 
counseling service, and there are clear indications that the problem is being 
resolved or is under control; 
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good-faith effort to repay 
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts; and 
(e) the individual has a reasonable basis to dispute the legitimacy of the 
past-due debt which is the cause of the problem and provides documented 
proof to substantiate the basis of the dispute or provides evidence of actions 
to resolve the issue. 
The  Appeal Board  concisely explained  Applicant’s responsibility for proving  the  
applicability of mitigating conditions as follows: 
Once  a  concern arises regarding  an  Applicant’s  security  clearance  
eligibility, there is a strong presumption against the grant or maintenance of 
a security clearance. See Dorfmont v. Brown , 913 F. 2d 1399, 1401 (9th 
Cir. 1990), cert. denied , 499 U.S. 905 (1991). After the Government 
7 
       
presents evidence raising security concerns, the burden shifts to the 
applicant to rebut or mitigate those concerns. See Directive ¶ E3.1.15. The 
standard applicable in security clearance decisions is that articulated in 
Egan, supra. “Any doubt concerning personnel being considered for access 
to  classified  information  will  be  resolved  in  favor of  the  national security.” 
Directive, Enclosure 2 ¶ 2(b). 
ISCR Case No. 10-04641 at 4 (App. Bd. Sept. 24, 2013). 
Applicant is able to receive partial credit under AG ¶ 20(b) as a result of his ongoing 
contentious divorce. However, no other mitigating conditions fully apply. In addition to 
evaluating the facts and applying the appropriate adjudicative factors under Guideline F, 
I have reviewed the record before me in the context of the whole -person factors listed in 
AG ¶ 2(d). 
Applicant has been gainfully employed since August 2022 with his current 
employer, and he is presumed to be a mature, responsible citizen. Nonetheless, without 
other information suggesting h is long-standing financial problems are being addressed, 
doubts remain about h is suitability for access to classified information. Protection of the 
national interest is the principal focus of these adjudications. According ly, those doubts 
must be resolved against Applicant. 
While the d ebts alleged in the SOR arguably resulted in large part from 
circumstances beyond Applicant’s control, that is only half of the analysis and Applicant’s 
response to h is financial problems must be the second consideration. Applicant was 
unable to submit any documentary evidence to supplement the record with relevant and 
material evidence to mitigate the financial security concerns. He did not maintain contact 
with his creditors, nor did he pursue financial counseling. By failing to provide such 
information, financial considerations security concerns remain. 
This decision should not be construed as a determination that Applicant cannot or 
will not attain the state of reform necessary for award of a security clearance in the future. 
Applicant is a hard-working and intelligent individual and a responsible father. With more 
effort towards documented resolution of h is past-due debts, and a better track record of 
behavior consistent with his obligations, he may well be able to demonstrate persuasive 
evidence of his security clearance worthiness. 
Formal Findings 
Formal findings for or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline F: AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph 1.a –  1.l: Against Applicant 
8 
_________________________ 
Conclusion 
In light of the record as a whole, it is not clearly consistent with the interests of 
national security to grant Applicant eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access 
to classified information is denied. 
ROBERT TUIDER 
Administrative Judge 
9 