 
 
                                                              
                         
          
           
             
 
 
    
  
       
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
       
       
       
    
       
  
       
   
 
       
 
         
      
     
    
     
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 23-02599 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Brian Farrell, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
04/02/2025 
Decision 
BENSON, Pamela C., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant mitigated the Guideline H (drug involvement and substance misuse) 
security concerns arising from his past use of marijuana and controlled substances. He 
did not fully understand that, although Delta -8 was legal in h is state of residence, it was 
still considered a controlled substance under federal law. Once he became aware of this 
standard, he made positive changes in his life and has completely abstained from using 
illegal drugs. National security eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
    Statement of the  Case  
On December 1, 202 3, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) 
to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guidelines H and J (criminal conduct). The 
DCSA CAS acted under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified 
Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of Defense 
(DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines 
implemented by the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
            
 
 
            
 
 
    
 
   
 
        
         
     
       
        
  
 
       
         
      
 
 
 
         
          
    
 
 
 
      
         
   
  
 
   
      
     
      
On January 17, 2024, Department Counsel amended the SOR under Guideline H 
to read as set forth below: 
SOR ¶ 1.a. You used marijuana with varying frequency from about 2016 to May 
2023. 
SOR ¶ 1.b. You purchased marijuana about two times from about 2016 to about 
May 2023. 
SOR ¶ 1.c. You intend to use marijuana in the future. 
Paragraph 2 Guideline J (criminal conduct) was deleted from the SOR. 
Applicant provided an undated response to the amended SOR (Answer). He 
admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b, and he denied SOR ¶ 1.c. He requested a hearing before 
a Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) administrative judge. I was assigned 
this case on November 7, 2024. DOHA issued a notice on November 25, 2024, 
scheduling the hearing for December 17, 2024. The hearing proceeded as scheduled via 
online video teleconferencing. 
Department Counsel submitted Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 5 ; Applicant 
testified and offered two documents, which I labeled as Applicant Exhibits (AE) A and B; 
and all of the exhibits were admitted into evidence without objection. DOHA received the 
hearing transcript (Tr.) on December 23, 2024. 
 Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 30 years old. He is unmarried and does not have any children. He 
earned a bachelor’s degree in May 2016. Since August 2018, he has been employed full 
time as a mechanical engineer for a DOD contractor. His employer is sponsoring him for 
a DOD security clearance. (GE 1; Tr. 24) 
Administrative Notice  
The U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), dated 
February 13, 2023, issued information concerning the chemical structures of Delta-9 and 
Delta-8, and the application of federal law. On my own motion and for the sake of clarity, 
I took Administrative Notice of the DEA’s findings, as set forth below: 
The Controlled Substances Act (CSA) classifies tetrahydrocannabinols 
(THC) as controlled in schedule 1. 21 U.S.C. Section 812, Schedule 
1(c)(17); 21 CFR 1308.11(d)(31). Subject to limited exceptions, for the 
purposes of the CSA, the term “tetrahydrocannabinols” means only those 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            
       
       
     
     
       
      
      
  
 
 
          
         
       
           
        
       
         
 
  
        
            
            
       
       
     
          
         
           
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
naturally contained in a plant of the genus cannabis plant… Delta-9 and 
Delta-8 do not occur naturally in the cannabis plant and can only be 
obtained synthetically, and therefore do not fall under the definition of hemp. 
Delta-9 and Delta -8 are tetrahydr ocannabinols having similar chemical 
structures and pharmacological activities to those contained in the cannabis 
plant. Thus, Delta -9 and Delta -8 meet the definition of 
tetrahydrocannabinols, and they (and products containing Delta -9 and 
Delta-8) are controlled in schedule 1 by 21 U.S.C. Section 812(c) Schedule 
1; and 21 CFR Section 1308.11(d).  (Judicial Exhibit I) 
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
Applicant disclosed on his June 2023 security clearance application (SCA) his use 
of marijuana between 2016 and 2022. He used marijuana approximately four to eight 
times a year, usually at special events with his friends. He purchased marijuana on two 
occasions. Both purchases occurred in state s that had legalized recreational use of 
marijuana. The last time he used marijuana was around late 2022 or early 2023. He has 
no problem letting his friends know that he no longer uses any product that contains THC. 
He has never needed drug treatment, and he has never been charged with a drug-related 
offense. (Tr. 18-23; GE 1) 
Applicant also disclosed on his June 2023 SCA his use of Delta-8, beginning in 
about 2016. He testified that he would go into a smoke shop and purchase a vape pen 
that contained Delta-8, which is cannabinoid (CBD) found in cannabis. Delta-8 is a less 
potent form of THC, often manufactured from hemp -derived CBD . Applicant 
acknowledged that Delta-8 is sold commercially in his state of residence, noting too that 
this state has not legalized the recreational use of marijuana. He was uncertain about the 
legal implication of Delta-8 and holding a security clearance, since it is lawfully sold in his 
state, as compared to the legal consequences of marijuana use, which he knows is illegal 
in his state and prohibited under fe deral law. The last time he used Delta -8 was in 
approximately June 2023. (Tr. 16-19; GE 1) 
Applicant  has been  very candid  about his past use  of marijuana  and  Delta-8, as  
reflected  on  his June  2023  SCA. Initially, he did not fully understand  that,  although  Delta-
8  was  legal in  his  state  of  residence,  it  was still  considered  a  controlled  substance  under  
federal law. He  testified  at the  hearing  that he  now understands that Delta-8  is prohibited  
under federal law  and  incompatible  with  security clearance  regulations. He submitted  a  
letter of intent to  abstain  from  all  illegal drug  involvement and  controlled  substance  abuse  
and  acknowledged  that  any  future involvement  or misuse  would  be  grounds for revocation  
of national security eligibility. (Tr.  23-24, 26-27;  AE B)  
Character Evidence 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
               
 
      
        
      
          
 
 
           
      
         
           
     
       
         
 
 
       
     
        
       
         
  
 
 
 
           
       
    
              
      
       
Applicant submitted  positive employee  performance  appraisals for the  years 2019  
through  2023. In  his most   recent appraisal   his supervisor stated, “[Applicant]  applies  
himself to  his analysis tasks and  does whatever research or learning  is necessary to  figure  
out a  solution  to  a  problem.  He is very willing  to  dive deep  into  how something  works,  
even  if  it’s not something  he  has any experience  with.  [Applicant] delivers quality results  
and  presentations.” (AE A)  
   Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for access to classified 
information will be resolved in favor of national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. Likewise, I have not drawn inferences grounded on mere 
speculation or conjecture. 
Directive ¶  E3.1.14  requires the  Government to  present  evidence  to  establish  
controverted  facts alleged  in the   SOR. Under Directive ¶  E3.1.15, an   “applicant is   
responsible  for presenting  witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or  
mitigate  facts  admitted  by  applicant or proven  by Department  Counsel and  has  the  
ultimate burden of persuasion to  obtain a favorable security decision.”  
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified infor mation. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
 
 
 
 
              
 
 
    
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
       
     
 
     
 
 
 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section  7  of  Executive  Order 10865  provides  that decisions shall  be  “in  terms of  
the  national  interest and  shall  in  no  sense  be  a  determination  as  to  the  loyalty of the  
applicant concerned.” See  also EO 12968,   Section  3.1(b) (listing  multiple  prerequisites  
for access to classified or sensitive information).  
     Analysis  
Guideline H: Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse   
AG ¶ 24 expresses the security concern for drug involvement: 
The  illegal use  of  controlled  substances .  . . can  raise  questions about an  
individual’s reliability and  trustworthiness, both  because  such  behavior may  
lead  to  physical or psychological impairment and  because  it raises  
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules,  
and regulations.   
I have considered the disqualifying conditions for drug involvement under AG ¶ 
25 and the following are potentially applicable: 
AG ¶  25(a) any substance  misuse;  and  
AG ¶  25(c)  illegal possession  of a  controlled  substance, including  
cultivation, processing, manufacture, purchase, sale, or distribution; or  
possession of drug paraphernalia.  
Applicant admitted he used and purchased marijuana and Delta-8, with varying 
frequency, from about 2016 to June 2023. The above disqualifying conditions apply. 
I have considered the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 26. The following are 
potentially applicable: 
AG ¶  26(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent, or  
happened  under such  circumstances that it is  unlikely to  recur or does not  
cast doubt on  the  individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or   good  
judgment; and  
AG ¶  26(b) the  individual acknowledges his or her drug  involvement and  
substance  misuse, provides evidence  of actions taken  to  overcome  this  
problem, and  has established  a  pattern  of abstinence,  including,  but  not  
limited to:  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
        
         
     
            
             
               
          
       
  
 
 
 
 
      
       
        
        
           
       
  
(1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts;  
(2) changing  or avoiding the environment where drugs were used; 
and  
(3) providing  a signed  a statement of intent to abstain from  all drug  
involvement  or substance  misuse,  acknowledging  that any future  
involvement  or  misuse  is grounds  for revocation  of national  security  
eligibility.  
Applicant’s last use of marijuana occurred approximately two years ago, and his 
last use of Delta -8 occurred a year -and-a-half ago . He credibly testified that he 
immediately stopped using Delta-8 upon learning it was illegal under federal law and 
incompatible for individuals entrusted with DOD security clearances. There is no evidence 
of more recent use. He acknowledged his drug use on his June 2023 SCA and took action 
to change his behavior by ceasing all use of marijuana and THC -products. He also 
provided a signed statement of intent not to use any illegal drug in the future. These 
actions demonstrate good judgment. Mitigating conditions AG ¶¶ 26(a) and 26(b) apply. 
Applicant successfully mitigated drug involvement and substance misuse security 
concerns. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the  whole-person  concept,  the  administrative judge  must  evaluate  an  
applicant’s eligibility for a  security clearance  by considering  the  totality of the  applicant’s  
conduct and  all  relevant circumstances.  The  administrative  judge  should  consider the  
nine  adjudicative  process factors listed at AG  ¶ 2(d):  
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  
and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct;  
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration of 
the guidelines and the whole -person concept. I considered the potentially disqualifying 
and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances surrounding this case. 
I have incorporated my comments under Guideline H and the AG ¶ 2(d) factors in this 
whole-person analysis. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
        
       
         
    
       
     
           
  
 
      
     
           
    
        
         
  
 
         
 
        
    
 
    
 
    
 
                                                         
 
 
 
 
 
             
                                                        
 
  
The Federal government must be able to repose a high degree of trust and 
confidence in persons granted access to classified information. In deciding whether to 
grant or continue access to classified information, the Federal government can take into 
account facts and circumstances of an applicant's personal life that shed light on the 
person's judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness. Furthermore, security clearance 
decisions are not limited to consideration of an applicant's conduct during work or duty 
hours. Even if an applicant has a good work record, his off-duty conduct or circumstances 
can have security significance and may be considered in evaluating the applicant's 
national security eligibility. 
Applicant made positive changes in his life, which are fully supported by five 
consecutive years of his positive employee performance evaluations in the record. He is 
committed to remaining drug -free, and I find his future use of illegal drugs is unlikely to 
recur. I have no reservation s or doubts about Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a 
security clearance. After evaluating all the evidence in the context of the whole person, I 
conclude Applicant has mitigated the drug involvement and substance misuse security 
concerns. 
   Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline H:  FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 1.a  through  1.c:  For Applicant 
     Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented  by the record in  this case, I conclude  
that it  is clearly consistent with  national  security to  grant  or continue  Applicant’s national 
security eligibility. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted.  
Pamela C. Benson 
Administrative Judge 
7 