 
 
 
 
                                                              
  
                         DEPARTMENT  OF DEFENSE  
      DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS  
           
   
             
 
}IB~l,►. 
ft 0 
~ ~ fiit',7r.eJ .. ,:$ 
1 
 
In  the  matter of:   )  
        )  
   )  ISCR Case No.  23-01596  
   )  
Applicant for Security Clearance   )  
 
 
 
     
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
       
    
 
 
      
       
      
     
          
      
 
       
        
        
    
 
______________ 
______________ 
Appearances  
For Government: Brian Farrell, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Samir Nakhleh, Esq. 
03/27/2025 
Decision  
Hyams, Ross D., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to mitigate the alcohol consumption security concerns. E ligibility 
for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on April 11, 2022. On 
October 16, 2023, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency Consolidated 
Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant 
detailing security concerns under Guideline G (alcohol consumption) . Applicant 
responded to the SOR on November 7 , 2023, and requested a hearing before an 
administrative judge. The case was assigned to me on September 5, 2024. 
The hearing was convened as scheduled on December 18, 2024. Department 
Counsel submitted Government Exhibits (GE) 1 -11, which were admitted in evidence 
without objection. Applicant’s Exhibits (AE) A-O were attached to his SOR Answer. At the 
hearing he submitted AE P-R, which admitted in evidence without objection. 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
             
       
         
  
 
         
           
       
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
Findings of Fact   
In his answer, Applicant denied SOR ¶ 1.a and admitted the rest of the SOR 
allegations with explanation. His admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. 
After review of the pleadings , testimony, and evidence submitted, I make the following 
additional findings of fact. 
Applicant is 61 years old. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2010. He was married 
in 2001 and has two adult stepchildren. He has possessed a security clearance since 
about 2010. He works as the director of maintenance for a government contractor in an 
aviation field. (Tr. 13-20; GE 1) 
The SOR alleged the following concerns under Guideline G: 
SOR ¶  1.a  a lleged  in  2021  Applicant  was diagnosed  with  Alcohol Use Disorder,  
Moderate, while in  alcohol counseling  from  October to  November 2021.  Abstaining  from  
alcohol use  was recommended.  He claimed  that he  was unaware of  this 2021  diagnosis.  
He  claimed  to  have  found  out after receiving  the  SOR in 2023  and  getting  documentation  
for his case.  However,  a  treatment  plan  and  goal document,  which Applicant signed  in  
October 2021,  shows the  diagnosis  and  goal to  abstain  from  alcohol.  The  signature  
matches  ten  of his signatures  on  the  following  page  showing  his attendance  in  the  
program. He completed  20  hours of counseling  in this program,  two  hours  a  week for ten  
weeks. The  documentation  from  the  counselor only reports him  having  three  prior  
convictions. It’s not clear they knew his full  history of DUIs and  alcohol abuse. (Tr. 15-41; 
AE N, O; GE  3, 4, 7)  
SOR ¶  1.b  a lleged  that Applicant continues to  consume  alcohol despite  the  
diagnoses and  treatment recommendations alleged  in ¶  1.a. He stated  that getting older  
has changed  his habits and  relationship  to  alcohol. He  reported  the  change  started  in  
2004.  His primary  takeaway from  the  counseling  was  that  his alcohol consumption  should  
be  limited  to  one  drink an  hour, two  drinks a  day, and  never more than  three  drinks a  day.  
He claimed  he  only drinks  one  or two  beers  at  a  time, one  or two  days a  week.  He claimed  
he has not been intoxicated since  his last  arrest.  (Tr. 15-41; GE  2)     
SOR ¶  1.c  a lleged  Applicant  was  arrested  in  October  2021  and  charged  with  
Driving  While  Impaired  (DWI) with  a  BAC of .22. He  was also charged  with  failure to  
maintain  lane  control and  civil revocation  of driver’s license. He was convicted  and had  
restrictions  placed  on  his driver’s license; an  interlock device was installed  on  his vehicle;  
and he  was ordered  to  attend  alcohol counseling. He reported  he  is only allowed  to  drive  
to  work and  cannot  drive between  6  PM  to  8  AM. He reported  the  court  lowered  the  
allowable blood  alcohol content (BAC)  on  his license  to  .04, with  .08  normally considered  
intoxicated.  These  restrictions  on  his license  continue  through  2026.  This arrest occurred  
after he  went to  a  concert alone  and  drank beer.  His BAC at the  time  of arrest was  almost  
three  times the  legal limit.  He testified  he  had  no  memory  of  how many beers he  drank at  
the  concert. He  could  not locate  the  hotel where he  was supposed  to  stay, so  he  decided  
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to  drive  home,  which  was two  hours away. He drove  for about  45  minutes after the  concert  
before he was stopped by police. (Tr. 15-69; GE 2)  
SOR ¶  1.d  a lleged  Applicant  was arrested  in  March 2004  and  charged  with  DWI.  
He pled  guilty and  was  sentenced  to  60  days in jail (suspended),  3  years  probation,  and  
fined. He  reported  his sentence  was suspended  because  he  was living  in another state  
at the  time  but  agreed  with the rest of the allegation. (Tr. 15-41; GE  10)  
SOR ¶  1.e   alleged  Applicant received  alcohol treatment from  August to  November  
1999  for the condition  diagnosed as  alcohol dependency. He reported that he was made  
aware of the diagnosis at the time  and agreed with it. (Tr. 15-41; GE 5, 8)  
SOR ¶  1.f  a lleged  Applicant’s security clearance  was denied  in 1999  for alcohol  
consumption  security concerns.  He  admitted  this was accurate.  He  reapplied  after a  year.  
He reported  his clearance  was  revoked  again  for a  time  after his  2004  DWI.  He  admits  
he had  an  alcohol problem during this time.  (Tr. 15-69; GE  11)  
SOR ¶  1.g  a lleged  Applicant was arrested  in  December 1997  and  charged  with  
Driving  Under the  Influence  of Alcohol (DUI) (second  offense  in a  year), DUI with  a  BAC 
of  .21, improper exit or entry on  a  highway,  and  driving  with  suspended  privileges. He  
plead  guilty to  the  first  and  fourth  charge, was  fined, and  sentenced  to  90  days in jail  
under the  work  release  program.  He  admitted  this was  accurate  and  reported  that he  was 
able to work while serving his sentence. (Tr. 15-41; GE  5,  6, 9)  
SOR ¶  1.h   alleged  Applicant was  arrested  in  1997  and  charged  with  DUI with  a  
BAC of .18. He was found  guilty.  Sentenced  to  two  days in  jail,  fined, and  his license  was  
suspended. He admitted this allegation was accurate. (Tr. 15-41; GE 5, 9, 10)  
SOR ¶  1.i   alleged  Applicant was arrested  in 1989  and  charged  with  two counts  of  
DUI.  He was found  guilty,  sentenced  to  30  days in jail, required  to  complete  alcohol  
education  classes,  and  his license  was suspended. He reported  the  sentence  was house  
arrest for 15  weekends, not jail time, but admitted  the  rest of the  allegation  is accurate.  
(Tr. 15-41; GE 9)  
SOR ¶  1.j  alleged  Applicant was arrested  in  1988  and  charged  with  DWI.  He  was  
convicted  and  ordered  to  perform  community service  and  fined. He  admitted  the  
allegation. (Tr. 15-41)  
SOR ¶  1.k alleged  Applicant was arrested  in 1987  and  charged  with  public  
intoxication  and  disturbing  the  peace. He was found  guilty and  fined. He  claimed  the  arrest  
occurred  in  a  different state  than  alleged  but admitted  the  rest  of the  allegation.  (Tr. 15-
41)    
SOR ¶  1.l alleged  Applicant was arrested  in  1982  and  charged  with  DUI with  a  
BAC of  .17. He  was found  guilty,  fined, and  had  his license  suspended. He  has little  
memory of this incident but admitted  it’s accurate. (Tr. 15-41; GE  9)  
3 
 
 
 
 
         
               
         
       
          
     
       
        
     
 
      
      
       
      
            
       
 
     
           
           
    
   
 
        
         
         
      
          
        
             
     
    
  
 
           
       
     
  
 
  
    
     
       
       
 
In January 2024, Applicant had an online interview with a psychologist. Dr. E, who 
was given a copy of the SOR and the case documentation. Dr. E had Applicant take a 
phosphatidylethanol (PEth) test on January 18, 2024 , and on February 1, 2024, to 
measure alcohol in his blood stream over the prior several weeks. Applicant’s first PEth 
test result was an 89, and the second result a two weeks later was a 32. Dr. E stated that 
levels showing excess drinking are over 200 . He reported while Applicant has engaged 
in risky behaviors while under the influence of alcohol, Applicant has not had symptoms 
of alcohol use disorder since early 2022. Dr. E did not think alcohol use disorder still 
exists at this time because he has had no recent incidents. (AE P) 
Applicant told Dr. E that he stopped drinking after Christmas 2023. Dr. E used that 
information to determine that his prognosis was good. He did not explain how he thought 
Applicant’s claim of abstinence was credible, since his PEth tests showed that Applicant 
had alcohol in his system more than four weeks after December 2023. Applicant testified 
that he started drinking again in March , around his birthday. He did not inform Dr. E of 
this change when he wrote his report in March 2024. (Tr. 15-69; AE P; GE 2) 
At the hearing. Applicant reported that he is still drinking. On November 29, 2024, 
his PEth result was 49. This lab report for this test stated that results in excess of 20 are 
evidence of moderate to heavy alcohol consumption. Applicant asserted that he is 
amenable to stop drinking but has yet to do so. He signed a sworn statement that he will 
not misuse alcohol or drink and drive in the future. (Tr. 41-69; AE Q) 
The only alcohol treatment Applicant had was court ordered after his 1999 and 
2021 DUIs. He does not believe he has an alcohol problem anymore but acknowledges 
he did as recently as 2004. He stated over the years he has learned to control it and not 
drink to excess. Despite this claim, he recognizes that his BAC from his 2021 DUI was 
higher than any of his other arrests. He has made several previous claims that he stopped 
or moderated his drinking. He was also fired from an aviation job in 1996 after using 
cocaine and testing positive on a drug test administered by his employer. While this 
allegation was not alleged in the SOR, it is considered for whole person purposes. While 
his wife rarely drinks, his friends and associates from work are drinkers. He claimed that 
he will not go out with them. (Tr. 41-69; GE 5, 6) 
Applicant provided four character letters which state that he is a good employee, 
trustworthy, and reliable. It is not clear that the writers knew about Applicant’s full history 
of DUIs and alcohol issues. He also provided education , certification, and employment 
documentation. (Tr. 41-69; AE C-I, L, M, R) 
Policies  
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG), which became 
effective on June 8, 2017. 
4 
 
 
 
 
     
        
      
         
 
 
          
      
         
          
     
       
         
 
 
      
    
   
 
       
      
       
      
      
 
          
       
    
              
      
       
         
 
 
         
           
      
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2 I, 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in maki ng a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off-duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadverten tly fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline  G, Alcohol Consumption  
AG ¶ 21 details the personal conduct security concern: 
Excessive alcohol consumption often leads to the exercise of questionable 
5 
 
 
 
 
         
 
 
        
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
 
 
 
  
 
 
judgment or the failure to control impulses, and can raise questions about 
an individual’s reliability and trustworthiness. 
I have considered the disqualifying conditions for alcohol consumption under AG 
¶ 22 and the following are applicable: 
(a)  alcohol-related incidents away from work, such as driving while under  
the  influence, fighting, child  or spouse  abuse, disturbing  the  peace, or other  
incidents of concern, regardless of the frequency of the individual’s alcohol 
use  or whether the  individual has been  diagnosed  with  alcohol use  disorder;  
(c)  habitual or binge  consumption  of alcohol to  the  point  of impaired  
judgment,  regardless of whether the  individual is diagnosed  with  alcohol  
use disorder;  
(d) diagnosis by a  duly qualified  medical or mental health  professional  (e.g.,  
physician,  clinical psychologist, psychiatrist,  or licensed  clinical  social  
worker) of alcohol use  disorder;  
(e) the failure to follow treatment advice once  diagnosed;  and   
(f)  alcohol consumption, which  is not in  accordance  with  treatment  
recommendations after  a diagnosis of alcohol use disorder.  
I have considered the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 23. The following are 
potentially applicable: 
(a)  so much time has passed, or the behavior was so infrequent,  or it  
happened  under such  unusual circumstances that it is unlikely to  recur or  
does  not cast  doubt  on  the  individual’s  current  reliability, trustworthiness, or  
judgment;  
(b) the  individual acknowledges  his or her pattern  of  maladaptive  alcohol  
use, provides  evidence  of actions taken  to  overcome  this problem,  and  has  
demonstrated  a  clear and  established  pattern  of modified  consumption  or 
abstinence in accordance with  treatment recommendations;   
(c)  the  individual is participating  in counseling  or a  treatment program, has  
no  previous  history of  treatment and  relapse, and  is making  satisfactory  
progress in a treatment  program; and  
(d) the  individual has successfully completed  a  treatment  program  along  
with  any  required  aftercare,  and  has demonstrated a  clear and  established  
pattern of modified  consumption  or abstinence  in accordance  with  treatment  
recommendations.  
6 
 
 
 
 
        
        
         
            
         
       
          
           
        
       
       
   
 
     
          
       
     
            
      
        
  
 
 
         
      
         
    
 
 
      
       
         
       
    
    
 
 
None of the mitigating conditions apply. Applicant has alcohol related arrests going 
back to the 1 980’s. He continues to drink despite being diagnosed with alcohol 
dependency in 1999 and alcohol use disorder in 2021, and both times he was told to 
abstain from alcohol. He acknowledged that he has had a significant problem with alcohol 
over many years. In 2024, he hired Dr. E to evaluate him for his security clearance case. 
Applicant told Dr. E that he stopped drinking in December 2023, and did not tell him he 
started drinking again in March 2024. There is a conflict between Dr. E’s assessment of 
the January and February 2024 PEth tests and the November 2024 results and lab 
analysis. Dr. E credited Applicant’s assurances of abstinence and moderation too greatly, 
considering Applicant’s past claims of abstinence and moderation, which were not 
sustained, and his long history of sever e alcohol abuse and resulting legal problems. I 
give Dr. E’s evaluation little weight. 
Applicant’s consumption of alcohol is ongoing, and he has only had treatment 
when he needed it for his legal cases. His claims that he will never abuse alcohol, or drink 
and drive again are not credible. The record shows that he cannot control his alcohol use. 
Applicant’s clearance was revoked for similar concerns in 199 9, and the behavior has 
persisted. He continues to have limitation s on his driver’s license. I cannot find that this 
behavior happened under circumstances unlikely to recur, and it continues to cast doubt 
on his reliability, trustworthiness, and judgment. The alcohol consumption security 
concerns are not mitigated. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole -person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the Applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  
and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct;  
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2( c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. I considered the potentially 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances 
surrounding this case. I considered his character letters, and his education, certification, 
and employment documentation. I have incorporated my comments under Guideline G in 
my whole-person analysis. 
7 
 
 
 
 
         
      
   
 
 
        
       
  
    
 
    
  
 
         
      
     
 
 
 
 
 
____________________________ 
Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts as to Applicant’s 
eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. I conclude that Applicant has not 
mitigated the alcohol consumption security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  G:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a-1.l:  Against Applicant 
Conclusion  
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant a security 
clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Ross D. Hyams 
Administrative Judge 
8 