 
 
 
                                                               
     
                   DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
 DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS          
           
             
          
            
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
      
       
         
 
 
        
      
    
        
     
    
      
  
 
          
             
      
          
          
  
In  the  matter of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR  Case No.  23-00361  
 )  
Applicant for Security Clearance  )  
 
Appearances  
For Government: Jenny Bayer, Esq., Department Counsel, 
For Applicant: Pro se 
01/17/2025 
Decision  
GARCIA, Candace Le’i, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant refuted the personal conduct security concern but he did not mitigate all 
of the drug involvement and substance misuse security concerns or the financial 
considerations security concerns. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
On June 9 , 2023 , the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline H (drug 
involvement and substance misuse), Guideline F (financial considerations), and 
Guideline E (personal conduct). The action was taken under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 
10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 196 0), as 
amended; D OD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance 
Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative 
guidelines (AG) implemented by DOD on June 8, 2017. 
Applicant submitted a response to the SOR (Answer) on July 12, 2023 , and he 
requested a hearing before an administrative judge. The case was assigned to me on 
April 1, 2024. Applicant waived his 15 -day hearing notice requirement and t he Defense 
Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a notice on April 18, 2024, scheduling the 
matter for a video teleconference hearing on April 25, 2024. I convened the hearing as 
scheduled. 
1 
 
 
 
      
           
        
     
       
      
 
 
        
           
       
    
 
 
 
 
 
          
     
        
            
       
       
            
         
       
         
  
 
 
       
      
         
           
       
        
          
           
          
       
          
       
At the hearing, I admitted in evidence without objection Government Exhibits (GE) 
1 through 4. Applicant testified and called one witness but submitted no documents. At 
Applicant’s request, I kept the record open until May 9, 2024, to enable him to submit 
documents. He timely submitted documents that I collectively marked as Applicant’s 
Exhibit (AE) A and admitted in evidence without objection. DOHA received the hearing 
transcript (Tr.) on May 3, 2024. 
SOR Amendment  
At the hearing and without objection from Applicant , I granted Department 
Counsel’s motion to amend the SOR, pursuant to ¶ E3.1.17 of the Directive, to correct a 
typographical error in SOR ¶ 1.k by striking “204” and replacing it with “2014.” Accordingly, 
SOR ¶ 1.k now reads, “From about June 2014 to about April 2020, you purchased LSD.” 
(Tr. 16-20) 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant  admitted  all  the  SOR allegations in  his Answer.  He  is 39  years old.  He 
married  in 2008  and  divorced  in 2011. He  has a  six-year-old child.  (Answer; Tr. 34, 36-
38, 49-50; GE 1)  
Applicant obtained his high school diploma in 2002 and he earned various 
certifications between 2010 and 2016. Except for periods of unemployment from 
approximately June 2016 to September 2016, January 2017 to May 2017, December 
2018 to March 2019, and June 2023 to September 2023, he has primarily worked as a 
painter for various companies since 2 007. He worked for three d efense contracting 
companies between approximately 2012 and 2023. His most recent such employer, for 
whom he began working in September 2022, placed him on administrative leave without 
pay in June 2023 pending the outcome of his security clearance. He has since worked as 
a painter for his current employer, a non-defense contracting company . He was first 
granted a security clearance in approximately 2015, when he worked as a painter for a 
defense contracting company. (Tr. 6-11, 35-36, 39-46, 50-53; GE 1-2) 
Guideline H: Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse  
Applicant used and purchased marijuana, with varying frequency, from 
approximately November 2006 to August 2022. (SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.c) His use of marijuana 
during this period occurred while holding a sensitive position. (SOR ¶ 1.b) As previously 
stated, he was granted a security clearance for the first time in 2015, when he worked as 
a painter for a defense contracting company (COMPANY A) . He continued to hold a 
clearance when he worked as a painter for another defense contracting company 
(COMPANY B) from around November 2016 to December 2016. He testified that he held 
the clearance for four years, so he continued to hold the security clearance when he again 
worked for COMPANY B from October 2019 to December 2019. He was granted a 
clearance again when he worked for his most recent defense contracting company 
(COMPANY C) from September 2022 to June 2023. Although he had a security clearance 
during these periods, he did not consider the federal illegality of marijuana because his 
2 
 
 
 
          
        
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
           
         
           
           
         
   
 
        
        
        
        
           
          
   
 
          
               
           
           
  
 
      
          
use of marijuana did not affect his work, as he maintained he never reported to work 
under the influence of marijuana or other illegal drugs . (Answer; Tr. 7-11, 35-36, 74-93; 
GE 1-2) 
In  about June  2016,  he  tested  positive  for marijuana  on  a  urinalysis test  
administered  by his then-employer.  (SOR ¶  1.d; GE  2)  He was consequently fired. He  
denied  having  used  marijuana  and  stated  he  was at  a  party  where  marijuana  was being  
used. Other than  his positive drug  test in 2016, he  stated  he  has not  been  fired  or failed  
a  drug  test since  joining  the  painters’  union  in  2007. He  also  stated  he  passed  a  drug  test  
one  week prior to  the  hearing.  He disclosed  the  information  about his drug  involvement  
on his SCA and he discussed it during  his background interview. (Answer; Tr. 23-24, 44-
45, 53, 79-80, 86-90; GE 1-2)  
Applicant  stated  he  last  used  marijuana  in  June  2023.  He  used  marijuana  
approximately  daily to  once  to  twice weekly in  a  social setting  or before bed  when  he  had  
trouble  sleeping, as a  relaxation  tool.  His use  varied  depending  on  how  much  he  was  
working, as he stated  that he  did  not use  marijuana  before or during  work. He is aware  
marijuana  is federally illegal but recreational marijuana  use  is  legal  in the  state  in  which  
he  resides.  Before  the  marijuana  dispensaries opened  in  his  state,  he  purchased  
marijuana  for his  personal use  from  a  friend  of a  friend.  After it became  legal where he  
lives, he  then  purchased  marijuana  through  the  dispensaries  in  his state. (Answer; Tr. 74-
93; GE 1-2)  
Applicant associates with individuals who use marijuana. He previously stated he 
intended to continue to use marijuana in the future. (SOR ¶ 1.e) He stated such was his 
intent since recreational marijuana use is legal in his state and he hoped it would become 
legal at the federal level in the future. As of the date of the hearing, he stated he no longer 
intended to use marijuana in the future because he no longer enjoys it. He also wants to 
obtain a security clearance, and he understands that illegal drug use is not compatible 
with doing so. (Answer; GE 1-2; Tr. 90-93, 103-106) 
Applicant admitted in his Answer that he used mushrooms and lysergic acid 
diethylamide (LSD), with varying frequency, from approximately June 2014 to July 2022 
(SOR ¶¶ 1.f, 1.j); he used ecstasy, with varying frequency, from approximately June 2014 
to May 2022 (SOR ¶ 1.h); and he purchased mushrooms, LSD, and ecstasy from 
approximately June 2014 to April 2020 (SOR ¶¶ 1.g, 1.k). He disclosed the information 
about his drug involvement on his SCA and he discussed it during his background 
interview. (Answer; Tr. 74, 94-102; GE 1-2) 
Applicant used ecstasy when he was with his former partner or when he was at a 
music festival. He used it out of curiosity and to enjoy the music festivals. He stated in his 
SCA that he used ecstasy less than 10 times and he used one ecstasy pill on each 
occasion. He testified, however, that he only used ecstasy once or twice in 2014 and he 
has not since used it. (Tr. 74, 94-105; GE 1-2) 
Applicant also used hallucinogenic mushrooms and LSD at home or at a party or 
music festival, as a relaxation tool. He also stated in his SCA that he used these drugs 
3 
 
 
 
         
         
        
              
          
   
       
  
 
 
            
        
        
     
          
 
 
    
   
      
       
         
             
    
 
           
         
          
        
      
             
               
            
               
   
 
          
      
        
          
      
          
 
 
 
 
less than 10 times and they made him feel unproductive. He testified, however, that he 
used LSD only once in 2014, he used mushrooms around three times between 2014 and 
2020, and he has not since used mushrooms . He purchased ecstasy, mushrooms, and 
LSD for his personal use from a friend of a friend until 2020. He stated that when he 
disclosed his drug use on his SCA, he was approximating the timeframe in which he used 
these drugs. He was aware ecstasy, mushrooms, and LSD are illegal drugs . He stated 
he does not associate with anyone who uses these drugs and he does not intend to use 
these drugs in the future. (Tr. 74, 94-105; GE 1-2) 
Guideline F: Financial Considerations   
The SOR also alleged that Applicant has three delinquent debts : a $12,884 
charged-off credit card (SOR ¶ 2.a), a $756 delinquent medical debt (SOR ¶ 2.b), and a 
$274 charged-off utility account (SOR ¶ 2.c), all of which he admitted. His financial issues 
are established by his April 2023 response to interrogatories , his August 2022 
background interview, and credit bureau reports (CBR) from August 2022 and April 2024. 
(GE 1-4) 
Applicant attributes his financial issues to his periods of unemployment , 
underemployment, financial illiteracy, and immaturity. His job as a painter is weather -
dependent, and he is consistently out of work between late November and early March 
every year . He usually supports himself through unemployment benefits during these 
periods and he takes this time to physically recover from his strenuous job. He has also 
had to take occasional leave from work to assist with his father, who had a stroke in April 
2024. (Answer; Tr. 24, 35-47, 50-55, 112-113; GE 1-4) 
Applicant incurred the credit card debt in SOR ¶ 2.a between 2012 and 2016, when 
he lived and worked in a different state. He indicated during his background interview that 
he was young, immature, and did not understand credit. This is the only delinquent debt 
listed on his most recent CBR from 2024. He had not paid the medical debt in SOR ¶ 2.b 
because he was unsure what it was for. He had the utility account in SOR ¶ 2.c when he 
lived at a previous address, and he believe d the account remained in his name after he 
moved out. He intends to look into his debts to resolve SOR ¶¶ 2.a and 2.b and potentially 
dispute SOR ¶ 2.c. He provided documentation reflecting that he began working with a 
company in May 2024 to repair inaccuracies on his credit file , but he did not provide 
documentation reflecting he resolved the SOR debts. (Tr. 55-66; AE A; GE 2) 
As of the date of the hearing, Applicant earned approximately $3,000 to $8,000 
monthly or $56 hourly. His salary ranges because of his weather -dependent work. He 
previously earned approximately $8,000 monthly when he worked for the most recent 
defense contracting company from September 2022 to June 2023. He estimated he had 
approximately $6,000 in various financial investments. He has never received financial 
counseling but he intends to do so to help him manage his finances. Tr. 35-41, 47-49, 60, 
106-110) 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
            
      
   
       
  
 
 
      
        
      
         
   
 
          
     
         
          
     
       
         
         
     
  
 
        
        
       
      
         
 
           
        
Guideline E: Personal Conduct  
The  SOR  also  alleged  that Applicant falsified  his response  to  “Section 26-
Financial Record ” of   his August 2022  SCA, which  inquired  about “ Delinquency  
Involving Routine  Accounts,” when  he  marked  “No” and  failed  to  list his delinquent   
debts in  SOR ¶¶  2.a- 2.c.  (SOR ¶  3.a; GE  1)  Applicant maintained  that although  he  failed  
to  list his delinquent debts  in response  to  questions in this section  of his SCA, he  did  so  
unintentionally.  He stated  it is difficult for him  to  discuss his  finances and  although  he  read  
and  understood  the  financial questions on  his SCA,  he  relied  on  the  opportunity to  discuss  
them  in  person  as  he  knew he  would have  a  background  interview  subsequent  to  
completing  his SCA. He discussed  all  of his delinquent debts  during  his background  
interview. (Answer; Tr.  23, 56-57, 66-74)  
Applicant’s employer presented him with a performance award in April 2023 for his 
hard work and dedication on a team project that was completed ahead of schedule and 
with zero deficiencies. (Answer) Applicant’s union representative, who has known 
Applicant since approximately 2010, testified. He stated that Applicant has “been a good 
union member and very active.” He also attested to Applicant’s reliability, trustworthiness, 
and judgment. (Tr. 111-117) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number o f variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 
2(b) requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national 
security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
          
        
transcends normal duty hours and  endures throughout off-duty  hours. The  Government  
reposes  a  high  degree  of  trust  and  confidence  in  individuals to  whom  it  grants access  to  
classified  information.  Decisions include, by necessity,  consideration  of the  possible  risk 
the  applicant  may deliberately  or inadvertently fail  to  safeguard  classified  information. 
Such  decisions  entail  a  certain  degree  of  legally  permissible extrapolation  of  potential,  
rather  than  actual, risk of “compromise of  classified  information.  Section  7  of Exec. O r.  
10865  provides that adverse decisions shall  be  “in  terms of the  national interest  and  shall  
in no  sense  be  a  determination  as to  the  loyalty of  the  applicant  concerned.” See  also  
Exec. Or.  12968, Section  3.1(b) (listing  multiple prerequisites  for access to  classified  or  
sensitive information).    
Analysis  
Guideline H: Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse  
The security concern for drug involvement and substance  misuse is set out in AG 
¶  24:
The  illegal use  of controlled  substances,  to  include  the  misuse  of  
prescription  and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances 
that  cause  physical or mental  impairment  or are  used  in a  manner  
inconsistent with  their  intended  purpose  can  raise  questions  about an  
individual's reliability and  trustworthiness, both  because  such  behavior may  
lead  to  physical or psychological impairment and  because  it raises  
questions about a person’s ability or  willingness to comply with laws, rules,  
and  regulations. Controlled  substance  means  any  “controlled  substance”  as  
defined  in 21  U.S.C. 802. Substance  misuse  is the  generic term  adopted  in  
this guideline  to  describe any of the behaviors listed above.  
The guideline notes the following applicable conditions that could raise security 
concerns under AG ¶ 25: 
(a)  any substance  misuse  . . . ;  
(b)  testing positive for an illegal drug;  
(c)  illegal possession  of a  controlled  substance, including  cultivation,  
processing, manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession  of  
drug paraphernalia;  
(f)  any illegal drug  use  while granted  access to  classified  information  or  
holding a sensitive position; and  
(g) expressed  intent  to  continue  drug  involvement and  substance  misuse,  
or failure to clearly and convincingly commit to discontinue such  misuse.  
As alleged, Applicant used and purchased marijuana from approximately 2006 to 
2022. His use of marijuana during this period occurred while holding a sensitive position. 
6 
 
 
 
       
           
        
      
     
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
      
            
           
             
       
             
              
             
         
He tested positive for marijuana on a urinalysis test administered by his then-employer in 
about June 2016. He expressed an intent to continue using marijuana in the future. He 
used LSD once in 2014, ecstasy once or twice in 2014, and mushrooms around three 
times between 2014 and 2020. He also purchased mushrooms, LSD, and ecstasy from 
approximately 2014 to 2020. AG ¶¶ 25(a), 25(b), 25(c), 25(f), and 25(g) apply. 
AG ¶ 26 provides the following potentially relevant mitigating conditions: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or happened  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur or does  not cast  doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;  
(b) the  individual acknowledges his or her drug  involvement and  substance  
misuse,  provides evidence  of actions taken  to  overcome  this problem, and  
has established  a pattern of abstinence, including, but not limited  to:  . . .  
(1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts.  
(2) changing  or avoiding  the  environment  where drugs  were  used; 
and  
(3) providing  a  signed  statement of intent  to  abstain from  all  drug  
involvement and  substance  misuse, acknowledging  that any future  
involvement or misuse  is grounds for revocation  of national security  
eligibility.  
I found  Applicant  credible in his testimony that  he  was approximating  the  timeframe  
in which  he  used  LSD, ecstasy, and  mushrooms when  he  disclosed  his use  of these  drugs  
on  his SCA. Despite  his admissions in his Answer, he  clarified  and  maintained  at the  
hearing  that he  used  LSD only once  and  he  used ecstasy only once or twice in  2014,  he  
used mushrooms  around  three  times between  2014  and  2020,  and  he  purchased  
mushrooms, LSD, and  ecstasy from  approximately 2014  to  2020.  Ten  years have  passed  
since  his  use  and  purchase  of  LSD and  ecstasy  and  four years have  passed  since  his  
last  use  and  purchase  of mushrooms.  I find  that ¶¶  26(a) and  26(b)  apply  to SOR ¶¶  1.f-
1.k and I find these  allegations in  Applicant’s favor.   
The same cannot be said for Applicant’s marijuana involvement, which continues 
to raise doubts about his reliability, trustworthiness, and judgment. He used marijuana 
from 2006 to June 2023 , more recent ly than what was alleged in the SOR , and he 
purchased marijuana from approximately 2006 to at least 2022. His use of marijuana from 
2006 to 2022 occurred while he was holding a sensitive position. He has had only one 
positive urinalysis test for marijuana , in 2016, eight years ago , but he continued to use 
marijuana until June 2023. Although he stated at the hearing that he no longer intended 
to continue to use marijuana, he previously expressed an intent to do so. He continues to 
associate with individuals who use marijuana and he did not provide a signed statement 
of intent to abstain from all drug involvement and substance misuse. He needs more time 
7 
 
 
 
           
   
 
 
       
 
       
   
            
   
      
          
     
    
    
    
 
    
   
  
 
 
            
 
 
      
   
 
 
 
 
to show that h is marijuana involvement is a thing of his past. I find that none of the 
mitigating conditions are established for SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.e. 
Guideline F:  Financial Considerations  
The security concern for financial considerations is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one ’s means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual ’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambl ing, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence . An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds . . .. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) inability to satisfy debts;  and  
(c)  a history of not meeting financial obligations.  
Applicant has a history of not being able to pay his debts . AG ¶¶ 19(a) and 19(c) 
are established. 
Conditions that could mitigate the financial considerations security concerns are 
provided under AG ¶ 20. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago,  was so  infrequent,  or occurred  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur and  does not  cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;  
(b) the  conditions  that resulted  in the  financial problem  were  largely  beyond  
the  person’s control (e.g.,  loss of employment,  a  business downturn,   
unexpected  medical emergency,  a  death,  divorce  or separation, clear  
victimization  by predatory lending  practices, or identity  theft), and  the  
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
(c)  the  individual has received  or is receiving  financial counseling  for the  
problem  from  a  legitimate  and  credible  source,  such  as  a  non-profit  credit  
counseling  service, and  there are clear indications that the  problem  is being  
resolved  or is under control;  and  
8 
 
 
 
 
 
     
         
        
        
       
      
      
   
 
 
     
 
         
 
 
        
      
            
    
        
 
 
 
(d) the  individual initiated  and  is adhering  to  a  good-faith  effort to  repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.  
(e) the  individual has  a  reasonable basis to  dispute  the  legitimacy  of the  
past-due  debt which is the cause of the  problem and provides documented  
proof to  substantiate  the  basis of the  dispute  or provides evidence  of actions  
to resolve the issue.  
Conditions beyond Applicant’s control contributed to his debts. The first prong of 
AG ¶ 20(b) applies. For the full application of AG ¶ 20(b), he must provide evidence that 
he acted responsibly under his circumstances. Although A pplicant is working with a 
company to resolve inaccuracies on his credit report, he did not provide documentation 
to show payment or other resolution for his three SOR debts. He has not received financial 
counseling. He needs more time to establish that he has his finances under control. I find 
that these financial issues continue to cast doubt on h is reliability, trustworthiness, and 
judgment. AG ¶¶ 20(a), 20(b), 20(c), 20(d), and 20(e) do not apply. 
Guideline E, Personal Conduct  
AG ¶ 15 expresses the security concern for personal conduct: 
Conduct involving  questionable judgment, lack of candor,  dishonesty,  or  
unwillingness to  comply with  rules and  regulations can  raise  questions  
about an  individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and  ability to  protect  
classified  or sensitive  information.  Of  special interest is any  failure to  
cooperate  or provide  truthful and  candid answers during  national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes.   
AG ¶ 16 describes conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying. I considered the following relevant: 
(a) deliberate  omission, concealment,  or falsification  of relevant facts from  
any personnel  security questionnaire, personal history statement,  or similar  
form  used  to  conduct investigations,  determine  employment qualifications,  
award  benefits or status, determine  national security eligibility or 
trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities.  
Notwithstanding his admission to SOR ¶ 3.a in his Answer, Applicant was credible 
in his testimony that he did not intentionally fail to disclose his delinquent debts on his 
SCA. He relied on the opportunity to discuss his finances in person as he knew he would 
have a background interview subsequent to completing his SCA. As such, AG ¶ 16(a) is 
not established for SOR ¶ 3.a and I find that allegation in Applicant’s favor. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the  whole-person  concept,  the  administrative judge  must  evaluate  an  
applicant’s eligibility for a  security clearance  by considering  the  totality of the  applicant’s  
9 
 
 
 
        
     
 
 
       
       
         
       
        
         
    
       
         
 
 
 
        
    
 
     
     
    
 
     
 
 
    
      
 
 
             
       
    
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  
and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct;  
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation  or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. I considered the potentially 
disqualifying and mitigati ng conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances 
surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under Guidelines H, F, and E in 
my whole-person analysis. Overall, the r ecord evidence leaves me with questions and 
doubts about Applicant’s el igibility and suitability for a security clearance. I conclude 
Applicant refuted the personal conduct security concern, but he did not mitigate all of drug 
involvement and substance misuse security concerns or the financial considerations 
security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  H:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a-1.e:  Against Applicant 
Subparagraphs 1.f-1.k:  For Applicant 
Paragraph  2, Guideline  F:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  2.a-2.c:  Against Applicant 
Paragraph  3, Guideline  E:  For Applicant 
Subparagraph  3.a:  For Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant’s eligibility for a security 
clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Candace Le’i Garcia 
Administrative Judge 
10 