 
 
 
 
                                                              
                             
          
           
             
 
 
    
  
       
   
  
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
     
 
 
 
     
      
         
       
         
    
     
     
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 23-02462 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Andre Gregorian, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
02/05/2025 
Decision 
GOLDSTEIN, Jennifer I., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant mitigated the security concerns under Guideline H (drug involvement and 
substance misuse ) regarding his past recreational and medicinal use of marijuana. 
Applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on August 12, 2022 . 
On February 22, 2024 , the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
Consolidated Adjudication Services (CAS) issued A pplicant a Statement of Reasons 
(SOR) detailing security concerns under Guideline H (drug involvement and substance 
misuse). The CAS issued the SOR under Executive Order 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 19 60), as amended; Department of 
Defense (D OD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance 
Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive) ; and Security Executive 
1 
 
 
 
 
     
  
 
      
        
 
 
        
            
         
       
     
       
        
         
         
    
 
 
            
         
          
          
      
          
           
 
 
          
        
      
        
         
          
             
      
          
     
 
 
         
        
           
            
  
Agent Directive (SEAD) 4, National Security Adjudicative Guidelines (AG) effective within 
the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR on April 8, 2024. He did not attach any documents 
to his Answer. He requested a hearing before a Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals 
(DOHA) administrative judge. (Answer) 
On November 15, 2024, the case was assigned to me. On November 25, 2024, 
DOHA issued a notice scheduling a hearing for January 9 , 202 5. The hearing was 
postponed by one day, due to the closure of the Federal government for the funeral of 
President Carter. The hearing proceeded as scheduled on January 10, 2025 . The 
Government proffered t hree exhibits, which I admitted as Government Exhibits (GE) 1 
through 3 without objection. Applicant testified and proffered four exhibits, which I 
admitted as Applicant Exhibits (AE) A through D, without objection. At Applicant’s request, 
I held the record open until January 17, 2025, to provide him an opportunity to supplement 
the evidentiary record. Applicant submitted AE E through G, which I admitted without 
objection. DOHA received the hearing transcript (Tr.) on January 17, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.c in response 
to the alleged security concerns under Guideline H. The SOR alleged that Applicant used 
marijuana between January 2015 and August 2022 in ¶ 1.a; that he used and purchased 
marijuana from November 2020 to August 2022 while holding a sensitive position in ¶ 1.b; 
and that in September 2021, he tested positive for tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) on a 
preemployment drug screening. His admissions are included in the findings of fact. After 
a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits, I make the following findings 
of fact. 
Applicant is 27 years old. He graduated high school in 2016. He served on active 
duty in the U.S. military from September 2016 to February 2020. He was released from 
active duty under honorable conditions on January 29, 2020. His DD Form 214 reflects 
that he “completed his first full term of service” but was “subject to active-duty recall, 
muster duty, and/or annual screening. ” (AE E) As a member of the individual ready 
reserve (IRR), Applicant had no drill requirements and was not attached to any command 
or duty station. He surmised that his obligation to the IRR ended in June 2024 when his 
military identification expired . He ha s had no contact from the military about reserve 
obligations since his discharge from active duty in February 2000. He has been employed 
by a government contractor since March 2023 as a biomedical technician. (Tr. 20, 25-29, 
38) 
Applicant has used marijuana containing THC with varying frequencies and 
circumstances. From January 2015 to May 2016, he used marijuana while in high school. 
In June 2016, he submitted a security clearance application he completed prior to joining 
the military. He disclosed he had experimented with marijuana as a senior in high school. 
(GE 1) He obtained a secret security clearance while serving in the military, however, he 
2 
 
 
 
 
        
        
          
            
       
  
 
       
     
     
           
              
          
       
  
 
               
        
       
        
          
  
 
     
          
        
       
  
       
      
            
       
         
        
 
 
     
       
              
        
         
   
  
 
 
testified credibly that he was unaware that he had a clearance. In h is 2022 security 
clearance application, he acknowledged that he had a DoD background investigation, but 
he listed the level of clearance as “None.” He abstained from marijuana use from May 
2016 through February 2020 while he served in the military. He understood that marijuana 
use was not permitted while serving in the military. He was subject to random urinalysis 
tests and always tested negative. (Tr. 23-30) 
Nine months after he was discharged from active duty , Applicant obtained a 
medical marijuana card issued by his state. He was experiencing severe headaches and 
tinnitus, related to his military service . He tried over -the-counter drugs like Tylenol and 
ibuprofen, but it did not help . He then tried medical marijuana. He would purchase an 
eighth of a gram approximately every two weeks and use it when he had a headache. He 
approximated that he used it three times per week from November 2020 to August 2022. 
He thought it highly unlikely that he would be recalled back to active duty and was not 
aware that he had been granted a security clearance. (Tr. 30-33; AE C) 
In August 2021, Applicant applied for a job as a technician at a medical care facility. 
As part of the preemployment qualifications, Applicant took a urinalysis to test for drug 
use. He explained prior to the test that he would test positive for THC because he was a 
medical marijuana user. The employer explained that as long as he had a medical 
marijuana card the positive drug test would not affect his employment. He reported testing 
positive but the positive test did not affect his employment. (Tr. 36-38 
Applicant inactivated his medical marijuana card in August 2022. He stopped using 
marijuana because he was hoping to get a security clearance . He also wanted to obtain 
a concealed carry firearms permit from his state and knew that drug use was inconsistent 
with that permit. In August 2022, Applicant was asked to complete a security clearance 
application. He did not list his marijuana use from November 2020 through August 2022, 
because he thought he was legally using it according to his state’s laws. However, he 
listed his illegal use while in high school. He voluntarily disclosed his medicinal marijuana 
use to the background investigator. He later learned that he had a secret clearance while 
serving on active duty. He now receives treatment through the Department of Veterans 
Affairs ( VA) for his headaches . They prescribe him medication and resources to help 
mitigate his pain. He is rated at 70% disabled. (Tr. 33-38, 42-44; GE 2, GE 3; AE A, AE 
D, AE F) 
Applicant does not associate with anyone that uses illegal drugs. He now 
understands the difference between state and federal laws. He has obtained his firearms 
license and knows that use of illegal drugs could cause him to lose it . He presented a 
urinalysis dated January 2025 that was negative for all illegal substances. He also signed 
a statement of intent indicating he would not use marijuana again and acknowledged that 
future use could be grounds for automatic revocation of national security eligibility . (Tr. 
42-44; GE 3; AE B, AE G) 
Policies  
3 
 
 
 
 
         
       
       
 
 
        
      
         
        
     
       
         
        
      
         
             
        
 
 
       
      
       
     
  
 
          
       
    
              
      
      
          
  
 
 
 
     
 
It is well established that no one has a right to a security clearance. As the 
Supreme Court has held, “the clearly consistent standard indicates that security 
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy 
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988). 
The adjudicative guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 
2(b) requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for access to 
classified information will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this 
decision, I have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on 
the evidence contained in the record. Likewise, I have avoided drawing inferences 
grounded on mere speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel, and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable security decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
that an applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Analysis  
Guideline H, Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse  
AG ¶ 24 expresses the security concern regarding drug involvement: 
The  illegal use  of controlled  substances,  to  include  the  misuse  of  
prescription  drugs, and  the  use  of other substances that can  cause  physical  
or mental impairment  or are used  in a  manner inconsistent with  their  
intended  use  can  raise  questions about  an  individual’s reliability and  
trustworthiness, both  because  such  behavior may lead  to  physical or  
psychological impairment and  because  it raises questions about a  person’s  
4 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
            
         
        
      
          
        
          
        
         
    
 
             
       
           
        
  
 
         
 
 
 
  
 
        
       
          
       
            
       
ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations. Controlled  
substance  means any “controlled  substance”  as defined  in 21  U.S.C 802.  
Substance  misuse  is  the generic term  adopted  in  this guideline to describe  
any of the behaviors listed  above.  
The Controlled Substances Act (“CSA”) makes it illegal under Federal law to 
manufacture, possess, or distribute certain drugs, including marijuana. (Controlled 
Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. § 801, et seq. See § 844). All controlled substances are 
classified into five schedules, based on their accepted medical uses, their potential for 
abuse, and their psychological and physical effects on the body. §§811, 812. Marijuana 
is currently classified as a Schedule I controlled substance, §812(c), based on its high 
potential for abuse, no accepted medical use, and no accepted safety for use in medically 
supervised treatment. §812(b)(1). See Gonzales v. Raich, 545 U.S. 1 (2005). While the 
Drug Enforcement Agency has proposed to reschedule marijuana to a Schedule III 
Controlled Substance in the Schedules of Controlled Substances: Rescheduling of 
Marijuana, 89 FR 44597 (May 21, 2024) , that change is still under review. Until that 
change is official, marijuana legally remains a Schedule I controlled substance. 
AG ¶ 25 provides conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying in this case: “(a) any substance misuse (see above definition)”; “(c) illegal 
possession of a controlled substance . . .”; and “(f) any illegal drug use while…holding a 
sensitive position.” The record and Applicant’s admissions establish AG ¶¶ 25(a), 25(c), 
and 25(f). 
I have considered the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 26. The following are 
potentially applicable: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or happened  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur or does  not cast  doubt  
on  the  individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  judgment;  and  
(b) the  individual acknowledges his or her drug  involvement and  substance
misuse,  provides evidence  of actions taken  to  overcome  this problem, and  
has established  a  pattern of  abstinence, including, but not limited  to: (1)  
disassociation  from  drug-using  associates and  contacts; (2) changing  or  
avoiding  the  environment where  drugs  were used;  and  (3) providing  a  
signed  statement of intent to  abstain from  all  drug  involvement and  
substance  misuse, acknowledging  that any future involvement is grounds  
for revocation  of national security eligibility.  
 
Applicant used marijuana recreationally from January 2015 to May 2016 and 
medicinally from November 2020 to August 2022 . He resumed marijuana use after his 
2020 honorable discharge from active duty because he did not understand his IRR 
obligation. Further, he was unaware that he held security clearance eligibility even while 
he was on active duty. He applied for the clearance while he was still in high school as 
part of his processing into the military and his claim about his lack of knowledge of his 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
   
  
 
        
 
         
   
 
        
       
          
       
         
         
  
 
  
clearance  was sincere. Since  August 2022,  he  has  matured, started  a  promising  career  
with  his current  employer, and  is receiving  prescription  medication  to  manage  his  
headaches from  the  VA. He provided  a  signed  statement of intent to  abstain from  all  drug  
involvement and  substance  misuse, and  he  acknowledged  that any future involvement or  
misuse  is grounds  for revocation  of  national security eligibility. He  does not  associate  with  
drug  users  or go  anywhere where illegal substances  are  used.  He documented  his 
commitment to  abstain  with  a  recent negative  urinalysis. I am  convinced  his marijuana  
possession  and  use  “happened  under such  circumstances  that it  is unlikely to  recur [and]  
does not   cast doubt on  [his] current reliability, trustworthiness, [and] good   judgment.”  
Guideline H security concerns are mitigated.  AG ¶¶ 26(a) and 26(b) apply.  
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the  whole-person  concept,  the  administrative judge  must  evaluate  an  
applicant’s eligibility for a  security clearance  by considering  the  totality of the  applicant’s  
conduct and  all  relevant circumstances.  The  administrative  judge  should  consider the  
nine  adjudicative  process factors listed at AG  ¶ 2(d):  
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  
and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct;  
(8)  the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a security 
clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guideline H in my whole-person analysis. Overall, the record evidence leaves me without 
questions and doubts as to Applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance. 
I have found Applicant’s accounting sincere. The differing Federal and state laws 
concerning marijuana can be confusing. He is now educated about the difference 
between state laws and Federal laws. He can be trusted to abide by the law. I have 
carefully applied the law, as set forth in Egan, Exec. Or. 10865, the Directive, the AGs, 
and the Appeal Board’s jurisprudence to the facts and circumstances in the context of the 
whole person. Applicant has mitigated the drug involvement and substa nce misuse 
security concerns. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
        
    
 
     
 
      
 
 
        
      
  
                                                    
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline H:   FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a-1.c:  For Applicant 
Conclusion  
Considering all of the circumstances, it is clearly consistent with the national 
interest to grant Applicant a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified 
information is granted. 
Jennifer I. Goldstein 
Administrative Judge 
7 