 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                      
                  
          
           
             
 
   
 
           
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
      
       
   
  
 
 
     
       
      
       
       
          
      
    
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
. ) ISCR Case No. 23-02354 
) 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: 
John Renehan, Esquire, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
01/23/2025 
Decision 
GLENDON, John Bayard, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant mitigated security concerns under Adjudicative Guideline s H (Drug 
Involvement and Substance Misuse) and F (Financial Considerations) . Based upon a 
review of the administrative record in this case, national security eligibility for access to 
classified information is granted. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted her Questionnaire for National Security Positions 
(Questionnaire) on August 15, 2022. (Item 3 attached to the Department Counsel’s File 
of Relevant Material (FORM).) On January 2, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and 
Security Agency Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant, detailing security concerns under Adjudicative Guidelines 
(AGs) H and F . (Item 1 .) The action was taken under Executive Order 10865, 
Safeguarding Classified Information Within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; 
Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
        
    
        
              
         
         
        
     
        
           
  
        
   
        
         
          
           
         
       
          
       
       
  
            
     
    
        
            
           
              
   
           
           
            
          
     
       
       
        
Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the 
Adjudicative Guidelines effective within the DoD after June 8, 2017. 
On March 5, 2024, Applicant responded to the SOR in writing (Answer) and 
requested that her case be decided on the written record in lieu of a hearing. (Item 2.) In 
her Answer she admitted with explanations two of the three SOR allegations and admitted 
in part and denied in part the third. She also provided additional information. 
On May 30, 2024, Department Counsel submitted the Government’s written case 
in his FORM, consisting of his arguments in support of the SOR allegations along with 
documentary evidence. The FORM was provided to Applicant by letter, dated June 5, 
2024. She received the FORM on or about June 14, 2024, and submitted a response, 
dated June 22, 2024 (FORM Response). 
Department Counsel attached eight documents to the FORM, which he identified 
as Items 1 through 8. Items 1 through 6 are admitted into the record. 
Item 7 is Applicant’s partially completed and unsigned response to the 
Government’s interrogatories. It includes a report of investigation (ROI 1) summarizing 
Applicant’s March 21, 2023 inter view with an investigator from the Office of Personnel 
Management (OPM). In the FORM Response, Applicant failed to respond to questions 
regarding the accuracy of ROI 1 and did not indicate whether she adopted the statement 
as her own. She provided responses to several questions regarding her tax returns and 
related issues, but she failed to sign her response. It is not apparent from the record 
whether the Government followed up with Applicant regarding the deficiencies of her 
response. Under these circumstances, I decline to admit this incomplete and unsigned 
document into the record. 
Item 8 is a report of investigation (ROI 2) prepared by an OPM interviewer 
summarizing an interview of Applicant conducted on September 29, 2023. The 
Government did not request that Appl icant adopt the ROI as h er statement in the 
interrogatories identified as Item 7. Instead, Department Counsel advised Applicant in the 
FORM that she could comment on or make corrections to ROI 2 or she could object to its 
consideration in this proceeding due to the lack of a Government witness authenticating 
ROI 2. He noted that if she failed to object to ROI 2 in her response to the FORM, her 
silence may be considered a waiver of any objection. 
In the FORM Response, Applicant asserted no objection to Item 8, raising the 
possibility, though unstated, that she may desire that the ROI be considered as evidence 
in the record. I have reviewed Item 8 and find the information therein adverse to Applicant 
is redundant to other evidence in the record. Accordingly, there is no need to consider the 
unauthenticated ROI as evidence in support of the SOR allegations. Moreover, 
Applicant’s mishandling and confusion about Item 7, discussed above, raises doubts as 
to whether she understood Department Counsel’s advisory statement regarding the 
possibility of waiver of objections if she did not specifically raise an objection to Item 8 in 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
        
          
             
 
    
 
 
            
         
         
             
         
     
 
 
       
      
 
 
               
           
          
       
        
          
      
            
             
    
 
       
           
           
      
          
    
 
        
            
         
    
 
her FORM Response. To the extent that Item 8 contains additional explanatory 
information supporting Applicant’s case in mitigation, which she may have intended be 
included in the record by not objecting , I will give that evidence the weight warranted 
under the circumstances. Item 8 is admitted into the record for this limited purpose. 
The case was assigned to me on September 12, 2024. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 41 years old. She has married and divorced twice and has one minor 
child. She earned a bachelor’s degree in 2015. She has worked as an engineer for a DoD 
contractor since August 2022. She experienced a six-month period of unemployment prior 
to a temporary job and then the commencement of her work with her current employer. 
Her August 2022 Questionnaire is her first application for a security clearance. (Item 3 at 
Sections 2, 12, 13A, 17, 18, and 25.) 
Paragraph 1  - Guideline  H, Drug Involvement and Substance  Misuse  
The Government alleged in this paragraph of the SOR that Applicant is ineligible 
for clearance because of her history of marijuana use . The SOR specifically alleges the 
following: 
1.a. Marijuana use during the period June 2007 to January 2022. In her Answer 
Applicant admitted she used marijuana during the alleged time period. She first disclosed 
this fact in her Questionnaire. She wrote in both documents that she had no intent to ever 
use marijuana again. Her last use of marijuana precedes the commencement of her 
employment with a federal contractor and her Questionnaire. Applicant is very proud of 
her work in support of DoD and has found “a new deep purpose” in her employment. She 
appreciates that her employer does not tolerate illegal drug use, and she does not want 
to jeopardize her position and future with her employer. She also no longer associates 
with the “habitual” drug users with whom she used marijuana in the past, including her 
former spouse. (Item 2 at 2; Item 3 at 38-39; Item 8 at 3-4.) 
Applicant wrote in her Questionnaire that, “My experience with Marijuana has run 
its course. I am no longer interested in it.” She had used marijuana in the past as self-
medication for depression. She also commented that “I am not the person I used to be.” 
With her FORM Response, Applicant submitted a signed, sworn statement of her future 
intention to abstain from illegal drug use pursuant to the Guideline H mitigating conditions. 
(Item 3 at 38-39; FORM Response at 10, 37.) 
1.b. 2009 Possession of marijuana arrest and conviction. In her Answer, Applicant 
admitted that she was charged with and convicted of Possession of Marijuana 2 nd in 
2009. The record reflects that she was fined and sentence d to 18 months of probation. 
(Item 2 at 3;Item 4 at 11.) 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
             
   
 
  
     
         
           
 
 
         
            
            
        
       
          
          
    
    
          
          
  
 
           
              
           
            
     
       
    
          
     
         
       
    
 
 
 
Paragraph 2, Financial Considerations  
 2.a.  Failure to  file federal  income  tax returns for tax years (TY) 2018  and  2021  as  
required.  Applicant denied  the  SOR allegations that she  failed  to  file her return  for TY  
2018  on  time  and  that  it remained  unfiled  as  of the  date  of the  SOR.  She  admitted  the  
SOR allegation that her federal income  tax  return for TY  2021  was  not filed  on  time.  The  
Government has not  alleged  in the  SOR  that this return  remained  unfiled. (Item  3  at  3-5.)    
 
The Government alleged in this paragraph of the SOR that Applicant is ineligible 
for clearance because of her failure to file two federal income tax returns in a timely 
manner. The SOR specifically alleges the following: 
Applicant supported her denial of the allegations regarding her federal income tax 
return for TY 2018 with a copy of her IRS transcript for that tax year . The transcript 
reflected that her return was timely filed on March 11, 20 19, and that she was due to 
receive a refund of $3,089. (FORM Response at 21.) 
In her Answer Applicant admitted that she filed her TY 2021 federal income tax 
return about one year late. She wrote that she knew that she owed taxes and did not file 
because she could not afford to pay the taxes due to unemployment and her recent 
divorce. She wanted to file the return once she was able to pay the taxes after obtaining 
new employment. The record reflects that Applicant was unemployed during the first four 
months of 2022 when the return was due. She wrote that she failed to file for an extension. 
With the issuance of the SOR asserting a security concern over her late filing of her TY 
2021 federal income tax return, she understands her mistake. As noted, Applicant began 
working for her current employer in August 2022. She filed her federal income tax returns 
for TYs 2021 and 2022 on March 16, 2023. She also submitted to the IRS at that time a 
check in the amount of $1,500 for her delinquent TY 2021 taxes. (Item 2 at 3-4; FORM 
Response at 8, 9.) 
In her July 2024 FORM Response, Applicant documented that the IRS was 
continuing to have processing problems with her TY 2021 and 2022 income tax returns 
and was unable to produce account transcripts that reflect the filing of those returns. The 
processing problems were due to Applicant’s divorce and change of address. At the same 
time, she legally changed her name and gender identification. She spoke with the IRS to 
try to update its records , but as of July 2024 , she was told that it needed more time to 
resolve the discrepancies in the IRS identification records. Applicant was able to provide 
IRS documentation of her March 2023 payment to the IRS for her TY 2021 taxes . That 
transcript is dated June 22, 2024 . It incorrectly reflects Applicant’s former name and 
marital status. As noted, the Government has not alleged that Applicant’s TY 2021 federal 
income tax return remains unfiled , only that it was filed late . (SOR at 1 ; FORM at 4-5; 
FORM Response at 14, 35-36; Item 8 at 1.) 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
        
      
          
 
 
           
      
         
       
   
      
            
 
 
      
     
         
       
       
 
 
 
           
       
    
         
     
  
       
     
      
          
            
     
 
 
 
Policies 
When evaluating an Applicant’s suitability for national security eligibility , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used i n evaluating an 
applicant’s national security eligibility. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. The entire 
process is a conscientious scrutiny of applicable guidelines in the context of a number of 
variables known as the whole -person concept. The administrative judge must conside r 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires, “Any doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. I have not drawn inferences based on mere speculation or 
conjecture. 
 Directive ¶  E3.1.14, requires the  Government to  present evidence  to  establish  
controverted  facts  alleged  in the  SOR. Under Directive ¶  E3.1.15, “The  applicant is   
responsible  for presenting  witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or  
mitigate  facts admitted  by the  applicant or proven  by Department Counsel, and  has the  
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining  a favorable clearance  decision.”  
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants national 
security eligibility. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk the 
applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or safeguard classifi ed 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as 
to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified or sensitive information. 
Finally, as emphasized in Section 7 of Executive Order 10865, “Any determination under 
this order adverse to an applicant shall be a determination in terms of the national interest 
and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” 
See also Executive Order 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information.) 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
   
 
     
         
  
 
 
           
           
  
 
     
           
  
  
 
 
 
    
 
 
Analysis 
Paragraph 1  - Guideline H, Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
The security concerns relating to the guideline for drug involvement and substance 
misuse are set out in AG ¶ 24, which reads as follows: 
The  illegal use  of controlled  substances,  to  include  the  misuse  of  
prescription  and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances 
that  cause  physical or mental impairment  or are  used  in a  manner  
inconsistent with  their  intended  purpose  can  raise  questions about an  
individual’s reliability and  trustworthiness, both  because  such  behavior may  
lead  to  physical or psychological impairment and  because  it raises  
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules,  
and  regulations. Controlled  substance  means  any “controlled  substance” as  
defined  in 21  U.S.C. 802. Substance  misuse  is the  generic term  adopted  in  
this guideline  to  describe any of the behaviors listed above.  
AG ¶ 25 sets forth the following condition that could raise security concerns and 
may be disqualifying in this case: 
(a) any substance  misuse (see above  definition).  
Applicant’s admitted use of marijuana in the past establishes the above potentially 
disqualifying condition. Accordingly, the burden shifts to Applicant to mitigate the security 
concerns raised by the facts of this case. 
AG ¶ 26 of this guideline provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. 
I considered all the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 26 and conclude that the following 
two conditions have possible application to the facts of this case: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or happened  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur or does  not cast  doubt  
on  the  individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  judgment;  and  
(b) the  individual acknowledges his or her drug  involvement and  substance  
misuse,  provides evidence  of  actions taken  to  overcome the  problem, and  
has established  a pattern of abstinence, including, but not limited  to:  
(1)  disassociation from  drug-using associates and contacts;  
(2) changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were 
used; and 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
       
     
  
  
 
           
         
              
              
   
 
         
        
        
        
            
      
   
   
 
 
     
       
 
 
          
 
 
 
            
       
(3) providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all 
drug involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that 
any future involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation of 
national security eligibility. 
Applicant’s last use of marijuana was three years ago. She showed her integrity 
by reporting her past use of marijuana in her Questionnaire. She stated in her application 
that she has no intention to use marijuana in the future. She has abstained from further 
use and has s hown that her past use of marijuana does not cast doubt on her current 
reliability, trustworthiness, and good judgment. AG ¶ 26(a) is established. 
Applicant’s written statements have also established AG ¶ 26(b)(1) and (b)(3). She 
has acknowledged her past drug involvement in her August 2022 Questionnaire and has 
taken steps to overcome the problem, specifically by no longer associating with habitual 
drug users, including her former spouse. Her March 2024 signed, sworn statement of her 
intent to abstain from the use of illegal drugs provides evidence of a pattern of abstinence 
and confirms her intent to move on from her past drug use. This statement also confirms 
her other evidence that in 2022 she made significant changes in her life and is no longer 
the same person who used drugs in the past. 
Paragraph 2  - Guideline F,  Financial Considerations  
The security concerns relating to the guideline for financial considerations are set 
out in AG ¶ 18, which reads in pertinent part: 
Failure to   live  within  one’s means, satisfy debts,  and  meet  financial  
obligations may indicate  poor self-control, lack of judgment,  or  
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise  
questions about an  individual’s reliability, trus tworthiness, and  ability to  
protect  classified  or  sensitive information.  Financial distress can  also be  
caused  or  exacerbated  by, and  thus can  be  a  possible  indicator of,  other  
issues of  personnel security concern  such  as  excessive gambling, mental  
health  conditions, substance  misuse, or alcohol abuse  or dependence. An  
individual who  is financially overextended  is at greater risk of having  to  
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to  generate funds.  
AG ¶ 19 describes a condition that could raise security concerns and may be 
disqualifying in this case: 
(f)  failure to  file or fraudulently filing  annual Federal, state, or local income  
tax returns or failure to  pay annual Federal,  state, or local income  tax as  
required.  
The Government did not establish that Applicant failed to file her TY 2018 federal 
income tax return as required ; indeed, she provided documentation to rebut the 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
          
   
 
           
          
 
 
 
 
          
        
 
  
       
         
         
          
      
   
 
 
          
      
          
 
 
 
        
    
      
   
 
         
      
      
        
      
     
allegation. The Government did establish the above potentially disqualifying condition 
with respect to her untimely filed TY 2021 federal return. 
The guideline includes seven conditions in AG ¶ 20 that can mitigate security 
concerns under this guideline. The following three conditions have possible application to 
the facts of this case. 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or occurred  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur and  does not  cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;   
(d) the  individual initiated  and  is adhering  to  a  good-faith  effort to  repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  and  
(g) the individual has made arrangements with the appropriate tax authority 
to file or p (ay the amount owed and is in compliance with those 
arrangements. 
Applicant’s untimely filing of her TY 2021 federal income tax return happened 
some time ago, was an isolated incident , and occurred under the circumstances of her 
owing taxes at a time she had been unemployed for several months. She now 
understands that she made a mistake by failing to file her return even though she could 
not pay the taxes owed. Under these circumstances, her behavior is unlikely to recur and 
does not cast doubt on her current reliability, trustworthiness, or judgment. AG ¶ 20(a) 
applies. 
AG ¶ ¶ 20(d) and (g) also appl y because Applicant made a good -faith effort to 
resolve her tax return filing delinquency, filed her TY 2021 federal income tax return, as 
well as her TY 2022 federal income tax return, in March 2023, and paid the overdue taxes 
for TY 2021 after she obtained new employment and regained financial stability. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole -person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for national security eligibility by considering the totality of the 
applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should 
consider the nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
        
          
         
        
      
            
 
            
     
  
 
 
        
    
 
  
 
  
 
    
   
      
  
 
      
       
 
                                                  
 
 
  
 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant national security 
eligibility for a security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon 
careful consideration of the guidelines and the whole -person concept. I considered the 
potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all pertinent fac ts and 
circumstances surrounding this case. Applicant has mitigated the security concerns 
raised by her past use of marijuana and her failure to file her TY 2021 federal income tax 
return as required. She has sufficiently minimized the potential for pressure, coercion, or 
duress, as well as the likelihood of recurrence. Overall, the record evidence leaves me 
without any questions or doubts as to Applicant’s suitability for national security eligibility 
and a security clearance. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by ¶ E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  H:   FOR APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a  and 1.b:  For  Applicant  
Paragraph  2, Guideline F:  FOR  APPLICANT  
Subparagraph  2.a:  For  Applicant  
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant national security eligibility for a 
security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
JOHN BAYARD GLENDON 
Administrative Judge 
9 