 
 
                           
                                   
                             
          
           
             
 
    
  
          
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
       
       
        
       
      
   
    
         
    
  
           
          
           
           
        
            
        
          
          
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
[Name Redacted] ) ISCR Case No. 23-01257 
) 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Mark Lawton, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro Se 
01/24/2025 
Decision 
HOGAN, Erin C., Administrative Judge: 
On December 11, 2023 , the De fense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
Consolidated Adjudications Services (DCSA CAS) issued a Statement of Reasons 
(SOR) to Applicant detailing the security concerns under Guideline H, Drug 
Involvement; and Guideline E, Personal Conduct . The action was taken under 
Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry 
(February 20, 19 60), as amended; Department of Defense Directive 5220.6, Defense 
Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as 
amended (Directive) ; and t he adjudicative guidelines (AG) implemented within the 
Department of Defense on June 8, 2017. 
On December 20, 2023 , Applicant answered the SOR and requested a hearing 
before an administrative judge. The case was assigned to me on September 3, 2024 . 
On November 5, 2024 , a Notice of Hearing was issued, scheduling the hearing on 
December 19, 2024 . The hearing was held as scheduled. During the hearing, the 
Government offered three exhibits, which were admitted without objection as 
Government (GE) Exhibits 1 - 3. Applicant testified and offered no exhibits. The record 
was held open until January 3, 2024, to allow Applicant to submit additional exhibits. He 
timely submitted four exhibits which marked as AE A - D, which were admitted without 
objection. The transcript was received on January 13, 2025. Based upon a review of 
1 
 
 
         
 
 
 
 During  the  hearing, Department Counsel moved  to  amend  the  SOR in  order to  
conform with  the evidence,  in accordance with the Directive ¶ E3.1.1.17, as follows:  
 
 
        
      
 
 
          
 
       
      
        
    
   
 
        
        
  
 
 
     
           
            
          
   
 
       
         
         
    
 
  
             
       
        
   
 
the case file, pleadings, and exhibits, eligibility for access to classified information is 
granted. 
Procedural Issues  
1.c.  You  used  marijuana  with  varying  frequency in about 2013,  while 
holding  a  sensitive position, i.e.,  one  in  which  you  held a  security  
clearance. (Tr. 8)  
The words “granted access to” were deleted. T here was no objection to the 
amendment of SOR ¶ 1.c. The amendment was granted. 
Findings of Fact  
In his answer to the SOR, Applicant admits to all allegations in the SOR. 
Applicant is a 57-year-old employee of a DOD contractor who seeks a security 
clearance. He previously held a security clearance from 2010 to 2016. He has been 
employed as a maintenance mechanic with his current employer , Employer A, since 
July 2021. He has a high school diploma. He is currently married. He has three adult 
children. His oldest child passed away about a year ago. (GE 1, Tr. 16-18) 
(Note: The facts in this decision do not specifically describe employment, names 
of witnesses, or locations in order to protect Applicant ’s and his family’s privacy. The 
cited sources contain more specific information.) 
Drug Involvement  
Under the drug involvement security concern, the SOR alleged Applicant used 
marijuana with varying frequency from about 1984 to about 2008. (SOR ¶ 1.a: GE 2 at 
7); he used marijuana with varying frequency in about 2013 (SOR ¶ 1.b: GE 2 at 7); and 
his marijuana use in 2013 occurred while he held sensitive position i.e. one in which he 
held a security clearance. (SOR ¶ 1.c: GE 2 at 7). 
Applicant started smoking marijuana in high school. He smoked marijuana about 
three to four times a week. He stopped using marijuana in 2008, because he did not like 
the way it made him feel. He was aware marijuana was illegal under federal and state 
law during the time he used marijuana. (Tr. 18-19; GE 2 at 7) 
In 2013, Applicant was golfing with his cousin. His cousin was smoking marijuana 
and offered him the marijuana joint. Applicant took one drag. At the time, he was 
working for Employer B, another DOD contractor , and held a Top Secret security 
clearance. He was aware the use of marijuana was illegal. He has not used marijuana 
or any other illegal drug since that one occasion in 2013. (Tr. 19; GE 2 at 7) 
2 
 
 
       
      
           
  
 
 
 
 
    
    
 
          
         
         
             
          
            
   
 
         
          
      
        
           
 
 
          
      
         
         
After the hearing, Applicant submitted a signed Statement of Intent , signed on 
December 24, 2024, indicating his intent to abstain from all illegal drug involvement and 
substance use. He acknowledged that any future illegal drug involvement or misuse is 
grounds for revocation of national security eligibility. (AE D) 
Personal Conduct  
Under the  Personal Conduct security concern, the  SOR alleges Applicant was  
terminated  from  his employment at Employer B  in December 2016  after he  failed  to  
pass a  lifestyle  polygraph  examination. (SOR ¶  2.a: GE  1  at 39; GE  2  at 6-8); and  he  
falsified  material facts  on  his September 9, 2021,  e-QIP  application, when  he  answered  
“No” in response  to  “Section  23  –  Illegal Use of  Drugs and  Drug  Activity –  While  
Possessing  a  Security  Clearance  –  Have  you  EVER illegally used  or otherwise been  
been  illegally involved  with  a  drug  or controlled  substance  while possessing  a  security 
clearance  other than previously listed?” The allegation  indicates he failed to  list his  2013  
marijuana  use  which  occurred  while  he  held  a  sensitive  position  and  held  a  security  
clearance. (SOR ¶  2.b: GE  1  at 37; GE  2  at  6-8); and  he  falsified  material facts on  a  
U.S. Office  of Personnel Management Optional Form  306  –  Declaration  of Federal  
Employment  (OPM Form 306), executed  by him on February 23, 2017, in response to:  
Background  Information  - . . . 12. During  the  last  5  years, have  you  been  
fired  from  any  job  for  any  reason,  did  you  quit after  being  told  that you  
would be  fired, did  you  leave  any  job  by  mutual  agreement because  of  
specific problems; or were  you  debarred  from  Federal employment by the  
Office of Personnel Management or any other Federal agency?   
He answered, “No” and did not list his termination from Employer B in December 
2016 for failure to pass a lifestyle polygraph examination. (SOR ¶ 2.c: GE 3 at 1) 
Regarding the allegation in SOR ¶ 2.a, Applicant testified that he did not really 
think he was fired in December 2016 . He thought he was let go because he lost his 
security clearance and was unable to stay on site. He worked for Employer B from June 
2010 to December 2016 when he was let go based on the failed polygraph. In February 
2017, he was rehired by Employer B . They reached out to him and offered him another 
job. He worked for them until July 2019 when he left for a better opportunity. (Tr. 11, 15 , 
21-23, GE 1 at 13-16; GE 2 at 6) 
The issue raised in the lifestyle polygraph was Applicant’s one -time use of 
marijuana in 2013. While golfing with his cousin, Applicant took one puff from his 
cousin’s marijuana cigarette. He initially did not remember this marijuana use. He 
testified the polygrapher was continuously asking him that there has to be something 
there regarding drug use. He finally remembered the 2013 incident and told the 
polygrapher about it.  (Tr. 11, 21) 
Regarding the allegation in SOR ¶ 2.b regarding the falsification on his 
September 2021 security clearance application, Applicant answered, “No” to the 
question about whether he had ever used illegally use a drug or controlled substance 
while possessing a security clearance . (GE 1 at 37) However, he listed that he was 
3 
 
 
          
        
         
      
 
 
 
              
  
 
          
        
       
     
         
  
 
          
        
      
          
       
          
           
       
  
 
        
          
           
              
   
 
 
    
         
        
      
          
        
 
 
     
    
terminated or lost his security clearance for failing a lifestyle polygraph on other areas of 
the same September 2021 security clearance application. Under Section 13A – 
Employment Activities, he listed his employment with Employer B from June 2010 to 
December 2016. He listed his reason for leaving employment from Employer B as 
follows: 
Had  yellow badge  which  was top  secret  with  poly after 5  years tried  to  get  
lifestyle poly and did not pass.   (GE 1  at 15)  
He also indicated in the same section that he was fired for not passing a lifestyle 
polygraph in December 2016. (GE 1 at 16) 
In Section 25 – Investigations and Clearance Record on his September 2021 
security clearance application, Applicant answered “Yes” in response to the question, 
“Have you EVER had a security clearance eligibility/access authorization denied, 
suspended, or revoked?” He indicated that his security clearance was denied in 
December 2016 by Employer B indicating that he “was going for a higher clearance and 
did not pass lifestyle poly.” (GE 1 at 39) 
I find the allegation in SOR ¶ 2.b for Applicant because his omission of the 2013 
marijuana use was not material. He provided information about his failed lifestyle 
polygraph on several areas on his September 2021 security clearance application. The 
failure of the lifestyle polygraph was related to his one -time illegal marijuana use in 
2013. He provided sufficient information on the security clearance application about the 
failed lifestyle polygraph which should have led the Government to information about his 
one-time use of marijuana in 2013. He does not deny the 2013 illegal marijuana use. He 
fully cooperated with investigators during his background investigation interview in 
October 2021. (GE 2 at 6-8) 
With regard to the allegation in SOR ¶ 2.c, Applicant admits that he did not list 
that he was terminated from his employment with Employer B in December 2016 on his 
February 2017, OPM Form 306. He testified that he was worried that if he told the truth 
he would not get the job. He admits using bad judgment when he completed the form. 
(Tr. 15) 
Whole-Person Factors  
Several of Applicant’s co -workers wrote letters on his behalf. Mr. C., a senior 
chief engineer, states it is a pleasure working with Applicant. He has worked with him 
since May 2023. He describes him as “an exceptional person and great employee.” 
Applicant is always present and has a great attendance track record. He has a positive 
attitude towards supervisors and co -workers and is a team player. He recommends 
Applicant for a security clearance without question. He is a great asset and a key player 
on the team. (AE A) 
Mr. T.M. has supervised Applicant since April 2024. He recommends hi m for a 
security clearance because he is an outstanding employee. He arrives on time each day 
4 
 
 
      
   
 
   
       
       
  
 
 
       
        
       
     
   
 
          
      
         
      
     
       
         
 
 
       
    
       
         
 
 
        
       
       
        
          
  
 
          
   
  
              
      
         
      
    
  
and is very professional. He works well with others, manages his workload well, and 
completes all tasks assigned to him in a timely manner. (AE B) 
Mr. R .J., a m echanical supervisor, has been Applicant’s immediate supervisor 
since June 2021. Applicant has proven himself to be an exceptional employee. He is 
professional when conducting business with staff members. He is always on time and 
completes assigned duties in a timely manner. He is an asset to the team. (AE C) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are use ful in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s over arching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables kno wn as the 
“whole person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and un favorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I 
have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical , and based on the 
evidence contained in the record. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, 
or mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel . . . .” The 
applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable security 
decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation 
as to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
5 
 
 
       
            
      
   
 
 
       
       
  
 
 
 
  
 
        
          
            
           
            
            
 
 
Section 7 of E O 10865 provides that decisions shall be “in terms of the national 
interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Guideline  H, Drug Involvement  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Drug Involvement is set out in 
AG ¶ 24: 
The  illegal use  of controlled  substances,  to  include  the  misuse  of   
prescription  drug  and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of other 
substances  that  cause  physical or mental  impairment or are  used  in  a  
manner inconsistent with  their  intended  purpose  can  raise  questions  about  
an  individual’s reliability and  trustworthiness, both  because  such  behavior  
may lead  to  physical or psychological impairment and  because  it raises 
questions about a  person’s ability or willingness to  comply with  laws, rules  
and  regulations. Controlled  substance  means any “controlled  substance” 
as defined  in  21  U.S.C. 802. Substance  misuse  is the  generic term  
adopted in this guideline to  describe any of the behaviors listed above.  
The  guideline  notes several disqualifying  conditions that could  raise  security  
concerns.  I find  the  following  drug  involvement disqualifying  conditions apply to  
Applicant’s case.  
AG ¶  25(a) any substance  misuse;   
AG  ¶25(c)  illegal  possession  of a  controlled  substance,  including  
cultivation, processing, manufacture, purchase, sale, or distribution; or  
possession of drug paraphernalia; and   
AG  ¶25(f)  any illegal drug  use  while granted  access to  classified  
information  or holding  a sensitive position.  
Applicant admits to using marijuana on various occasions from 1984 to about 
2008. He stopped using marijuana in 2008. He admits taking one puff off a marijuana 
cigarette while golfing with his cousin in June 2013. He also admits that he held a 
security clearance on the occasion when he used marijuana in June 2013. At the time 
he used marijuana, it was illegal and he possessed an illegal drug. AG ¶¶ 25(a) and 
25(c) apply to SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b. AG ¶ 25(f) applies to SOR ¶1.c. 
The  Government’s substantial evidence  and  Applicant’s own admissions raise   
security concerns under Guideline  H,  Drug Involvement.  The burden  shifted  to  Applicant  
to  produce  evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or mitigate  the  security concerns.  
(Directive  ¶  E3.1.15)  An  applicant has the  burden  of  proving  a  mitigating  condition, and  
the  burden  of  disproving  it  never  shifts  to  the  Government.  (See  ISCR  Case  No.  02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. September 22, 2005))   
6 
 
 
   
        
 
 
  
 
 
        
           
      
        
  
 
         
    
 
 
       
  
 
 
 
Guideline H also includes examples of conditions that could mitigate security 
concerns arising from drug involvement. The following mitigating conditions potentially 
apply to the Applicant’s case: 
AG ¶  26(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent, or  
occurred  under such  circumstances that it is unlikely to  recur and does not 
cast doubt on  the  individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or  good  
judgment;  and  
AG ¶  26(b) the  individual acknowledges his or her drug  involvement and  
substance  misuse, provides evidence  of actions taken  to  overcome  this  
problem, and  has established  a  pattern  of abstinence,  including,  but  not  
limited  to: (1) disassociation  from  drug-using  associates and  contacts;  (2)  
changing  or avoiding  the  environment where  drugs were  used; and  (3)  
providing  a  signed  statement of intent to  abstain from  all  drug  involvement  
and  substance  misuse, acknowledging  that any future involvement or  
misuse is grounds for revocation of national security eligibility.  
AG ¶ 26(b) applies because Applicant acknowledged his illegal drug use and 
signed a Statement of Intent indicating he will not use marijuana in the future. He 
acknowledged any future illegal use could result in the revocation of his security 
clearance. He has not used marijuana in over 11 years. He was very forthcoming during 
the hearing about his marijuana use. 
Overall, Applicant met his burden to mitigate the security concerns raised unde r 
Guideline H, Drug Involvement. 
 AG ¶  26(a)  applies because  Applicant’s  last  use  of  marijuana  occurred  in June  
2013. He  stopped  regularly using  marijuana  in 2008. On  one  occasion  in  June  2013,  he  
took  one  puff off  a  marijuana  cigarette.  He  has not  used  marijuana  since  that  time.  His  
last  use  of marijuana  was over 11  years ago. Applicant’s past marijuana  use  no  longer 
raises questions about his reliability, trustworthiness, and judgment.  
Guideline E,  Personal Conduct  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Personal Conduct is set out in 
AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving  questionable judgment, lack of candor,  dishonesty,  or  
unwillingness to  comply with  rules and  regulations can  raise  questions  
about an  individual’s reliability, trustworthiness ,  and  ability to  protect  
classified  or sensitive  information.  Of  special interest is any  failure to  
cooperate  or provide  truthful and  candid  answers during  the  national  
security or adjudicative processes. . . .  
7 
 The  following  disqualifying  conditions  under AG ¶  16  potentially apply  to  
Applicant’s case:  
 
 
 
  
         
      
             
    
 
         
           
  
  
 
 
 
           
        
        
           
        
       
         
              
          
      
        
   
 
AG ¶  16(a) deliberate  omission, concealment,  or falsification  of relevant  
facts from  any personnel security questionnaire, personal  history 
statement,  or similar  form  used  to  conduct investigations, determine  
employment  qualifications, award  benefits or status,  determine  national  
security eligibility or trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities; 
and  
AG ¶  16(e) personal conduct,  or concealment of information  about one’s  
conduct,  that creates  a  vulnerability to  exploitation, manipulation, or  
duress by  a  foreign  intelligence  entity or other individual or group.  Such  
violation of a written or recorded commitment made by the individual to the  
employer as a  condition  of employment.  Such  conduct includes: (1) 
engaging  in activities which, if known,  could  affect he  person’s personal,  
professional, or community standing.  
AG ¶ 16( a) applies with regard to SOR ¶ 2.c - Applicant’s failure to list that he 
was fired from Employer B (or left by mutual agreement because of specific problems) 
on an OPM Form 306 signed by him in February 2017. It does not apply to SOR ¶ 2.b 
for reasons stated previously in this decision. 
AG ¶ 16( e) applies because Applicant’s use of illegal marijuana in June 2013 
while holding a security clearance and his failure to disclose that he was terminated 
from Employer B makes him vulnerable to exploitation, manipulation or duress. 
 Under Guideline  E, the  following  mitigating  conditions potentially apply in  
Applicant’s case:  
AG ¶  17(c)  the  offense  is so  minor,  or  so  much  time  has passed,  or the  
behavior is so  infrequent,  or it  happened  under such  unique  
circumstances that is  unlikely to  recur and  does  not cast doubt  on  the  
individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment; and  
AG ¶ 17(e)  the  individual has  taken  positive  steps  to  reduce  or eliminate  
vulnerability to exploitation, manipulation, or duress.   
AG ¶ 17(c) applies. Applicant last used marijuana in June 2013. Even though he 
was terminated from Employer B in December 2016 because of the failed polygraph, 
they rehired him in February 2017 in another position. Although the OPM Form 306 
does not state the name of the employer for whom Applicant completed the form as part 
of his employment , it appears likely that it was Employer B, since it was signed by 
Applicant in February 2017 and he was rehired by Employer B in February 2017. 
Applicant admits that it was poor judgment when he did not list that he was terminated 
on the OPM Form 306. If the form was completed in conjunction with being re -hired by 
Employer B, they were already aware of the termination. In his current job, h e is well 
regarded by his supervisors and co -workers. He was forthcoming and accepted 
responsibility for his actions during the hearing. The conduct is unlikely to recur and 
does not cast doubt on his reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment. 
8 
 
 
        
        
           
     
 
 
 
         
      
        
    
 
 
       
   
     
 
                
          
         
          
      
        
  
 
                
       
   
  
 
      
       
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
AG ¶ 17( e) applies. Applicant fully disclosed the extent of his illegal marijuana 
use during his 2021 background investigation. He was forthcoming about the failed 
polygraph related to the June 2013 marijuana use and his subsequent termination by 
Employer B. He has taken positive steps to reduce vulnerability, exploitation, 
manipulation, or duress. Personal Conduct security concerns are mitigated. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole -person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(a): 
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of  
rehabilitation  and  other permanent  behavioral changes;  (7) the  motivation  
for the  conduct;  (8) the  potential  for pressure, coercion,  exploitation, or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood  of continuation  or recurrence.   
Under AG ¶ 2( c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a security 
clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered Applicant’s favorable character references from two supervisors and 
a co -worker. I considered that he disclosed his illegal marijuana use during his 
background investigation and was very forthcoming during the hearing. He has not used 
marijuana since June 2013. He admitted the conduct and accepted responsibility for his 
past actions. I find Applicant mitigated the security concerns under Guideline H because 
it has been more than 11 years since he last used marijuana and he signed a Statement 
of Intent that he will no longer use illegal drugs in the future. 
Under Personal Conduct, Applicant mitigated the security concerns. The 
allegations under Guideline E are unlikely to recur. Applicant accepted responsibility for 
his past actions. His current supervisors and co-workers think highly of him and attest to 
his excellent work ethic. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions as well as the 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. The security concerns under Drug 
Involvement and Personal Conduct are mitigated. 
9 
 
 
  
     
   
 
   
 
    
 
       
   
    
  
 
        
        
     
 
 
                                                
 
 
 
_________________ 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  H:   FOR APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a  –  1.c:  For Applicant  
Paragraph  2, Guideline  E: FOR APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  2.a  –  2.c:  For Applicant  
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
ERIN C. HOGAN 
Administrative Judge 
10 