 
 
 
 
       
 
           
  
 
 
     
         
      
    
    
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
     
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
   
     
 
   
  
olllll'!~ ~ ~ !llao (,, ► 
'tr 
00 
______________ 
______________ 
                                                       
                           DEPARTMENT OF  DEFENSE  
        DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS  
           
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 23-02663 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: John Renehan, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
05/07/2025 
Decision 
OLMOS, Bryan J., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant mitigated the security concerns under Guideline E (Personal Conduct) . 
However, he failed to mitigate the security concerns under Guideline F ( Financial 
Considerations). Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on June 20, 2022. On 
July 30, 2024, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) 
to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline F , Guideline E and Guideline B 
(Foreign Influence). The DOD issued the SOR under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, 
Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; 
DOD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program 
(January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the Security Executive Agent Directive 4 
(SEAD 4), National Security Adjudicative Guidelines (AG), effective June 8, 2017. 
Applicant received the SOR on August 21, 2024, submitted an undated answer 
(Answer) and requested a decision based on the written record by an administrative judge 
1 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
     
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
    
  
    
  
    
 
 
   
  
   
   
 
  
  
   
    
   
     
 
  
     
  
    
   
from the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA), in lieu of a hearing. On 
February 19, 2025, Department Counsel submitted the Government’s File of Relevant 
Material (FORM) withdrawing the SOR allegations under Guideline B and including 
Government’s Exhibits (GX) 1 through 10. On about March 25, 2025, Applicant submitted 
a response to the FORM, including updated responses to interrogatories , and provided 
additional explanations and documents. (Response) 
The case was assigned to me on April 22, 2025. The SOR (GX 1) and Answer (GX  
3) are the pleadings in this case. GX  2, GX 4  through  GX 10,  as well as the documents  
contained in the Response  are admitted without objection.  
Findings of Fact  
In  his  Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted  SOR allegations ¶¶  1.a, 1.b, 1.d and  
1.f and denied SOR  allegations ¶¶ 1.c, 1.e, 1.g,  2.a and 2.b with explanations .  His  
admissions  are incorporated into my findings of  fact.  His admissions and denials  to SOR  
allegations ¶¶  3.a through 3.c will not  be considered as the allegations have been  
withdrawn.  After  a thorough review of the pleadings and evidence submitted,  I  make the  
following additional findings  of fact.  
Applicant is 49 years old and married. He has four children, all adult age, from a 
previous relationship. He completed high school in 1995. Since at least 1997, he has 
primarily worked as a marine electrician. While he generally maintained full -time 
employment during his career, he was unemployed for about six -months from 2016 into 
2017 and again for most of 2022. He has worked full-time with his current employer since 
December 2022. (Answer; Response; GX 4, 7) 
Financial Considerations  
The SOR alleged that Applicant has multiple delinquent accounts, primarily relating 
to child support and a rental contract, totaling approximately $103,481. The debts are 
established through Applicant’s admissions and credit reports. The evidence concerning 
the specific SOR allegations is summarized below. (GX 8-10) 
SOR ¶ 1.a ($69,325 ) is for child -support arrearage that Applicant owes, through 
State A, to his former girlfriend for their four children. In his August 2022 background 
interview with a DOD investigator, Applicant recalled that, in about 2008, he started 
paying about $300 every two weeks in child support and admitted there were times that 
he did not make payments, particularly when he was unemployed or when there would 
be a delay initiating payments after he changed jobs. (Answer; Response; GX 5, 7) 
In about July 2022, Applicant’s girlfriend added their fourth child to the support 
order. This came as a surprise to Applicant as he believed his previous support payments 
were for all four of his children. The order was retroactive to the child’s birthdate and 
totaled about $40,000. During his August 2022 interview, Applicant stated that his balance 
with the State A Child Support Enforcement Agency was $79,327. (GX 5-7) 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
  
 
  
 
   
  
 
   
     
   
      
  
 
  
      
  
   
     
   
    
 
     
 
   
    
   
 
     
 
 
  
  
  
    
   
  
  
  
   
 
 
In his June 2024 response to interrogatories , Applicant admitted that he had a 
child-support arrearage and had requested an updated balance from State A. In his July 
2024 response to interrogatories, Applicant detailed that $356 was being withdrawn from 
his paycheck every two weeks for child support. He submitted a payment history from 
State A showing biweekly payments of $345 from July 2023 through June 2024. The 
balance also decreased from $78,313 to $69,325. (GX 5-7) 
In his Response, Applicant provided an expanded payment history from State A 
that showed monthly child- support payments of $699 from December 2021 through 
December 2022 and biweekly payments of $345 from March 2023 through February 
2025. The record also reflects that he no longer owes monthly child-support obligations, 
as all his children are now adults , and the balance for the arrearage has decreased to 
$63,448. Applicant stated his intent to allow these payments to continue to be withdrawn 
from his paycheck and has included them in his budget as part of his monthly expenses. 
(Response) 
SOR ¶¶ 1.b ($113) and 1.c ($265) relate to two accounts with an internet /cable 
provider. During his August 2022 interview, Applicant stated that he fell behind on 
payments and his service was terminated in July 2022. He believed the balances related 
to fees for the account being past due and equipment charges. In his Answer, Applicant 
denied SOR ¶ 1.c and stated it may be a duplicate of SOR ¶ 1.b. However, credit reports 
show two different account numbers corresponding to the two debts. Applicant did not 
submit any evidence of payments toward these delinquent debts. (Answer; GX 7-10) 
SOR ¶ 1.d ($4,717) is a personal loan that Applicant opened in 2019. He did not 
recognize the account during his August 2022 interview but admitted the debt in his 
Answer. Applicant’s credit reports reflect that the account has been charged off. In his 
Response, he indicated that a payment arrangement had been made, but did not provide 
any supporting documents or proof of payments. (Answer; Response; GX 7-10) 
SOR ¶ 1.e ($28,024) is a collection account that relates to the balance due on a 
residential lease. Applicant explained that he moved into an apartment in April 2017. By 
February 2018, he was financially struggling and stopped paying the monthly rent of 
$1,900. He remained in the apartment until October 2021, when he finally moved out 
under threat of eviction. During his August 2022 interview, he claimed that he attempted 
to resolve this debt through mediation but was never able to catch up on payments. In his 
September 2023 response to interrogatories, he stated the debt had not been paid, which 
is also reflected in multiple credit reports. He stated in his Answer that he was told to 
move out and would not be charged by the landlord. However, he did not provide any 
documents reflecting an agreement that he had been relieved of this debt obligation. In 
his Response, he stated that a payment arrangement with the creditor had been made 
but did not provide any supporting documents or proof of payment. (Answer; Response; 
GX 5-10) 
3 
 
 
 
 
     
 
  
    
 
  
   
  
  
 
     
   
 
   
    
 
   
   
     
  
   
     
 
      
  
  
    
    
   
   
  
 
  
  
   
 
  
   
     
    
    
  
 
        
  
SOR ¶ 1.f ($959) is a collection account originating from a mobile phone provider. 
Applicant stated he opened an account with the provider in 2015. At an unrecalled date 
afterwards, he switched providers. The collection account appeared in Applicant’s July 
2022 credit report, but not in subsequent credit reports. During his August 2022 interview, 
he suspected the bill related to a new phone that he never returned when he cancelled 
the contract. He admitted this debt in his Answer and stated he did not have sufficient 
funds to pay the debt. In his Response, he stated that additional documents showed 
payment status and proof of payments. However, he did not provide any supporting 
documents specifically relating to this debt. (Answer; Response; GX 5-8) 
SOR ¶ 1.g ($78) is a collection account relating to a medical debt. Applicant did 
not recognize this debt during his August 2022 interview and denied it in his Answer. The 
collection account appeared in Applicant’s July 2022 credit report, but not in subsequent 
credit reports. Applicant did not provide any documents reflecting resolution of this 
account or his efforts to contest the debt. (GX 7-8) 
In addition to periods of unemployment, Applicant stated in his September 2023 
interrogatory response that his wife had been diagnosed with cancer, which required an 
operation at an unspecified date. He stated that hospital bills had created an additional 
financial burden. Applicant’s November 2024 credit report, the most recent in evidence, 
showed that a medical debt of $10,791 was placed for collection in about November 2023. 
The credit report does not reflect any payments toward this debt. (GX 5, 10) 
Applicant included pay stubs from September 2023 and January 2025 that 
reflected he earned just over $3,000 per pay period, which would equate to an annual 
salary of about $78,000. He also provided a budget in September 2023 that showed he 
and his wife earned about $6,140 per month. After bills and child support, he estimated 
that he had a monthly net remainder of about $1,000. However, in his Response, he 
submitted an updated budget that showed his expenses outpacing his and his wife’s 
combined income. Nonetheless, he continued to state his commitment to resolving his 
delinquent accounts. (Response; GX 7) 
I
n his Response, Applicant also included a March 2025 letter from a credit repair 
company. In the letter, the company stated that Applicant was “an active client” who had 
“engaged our services to dispute factual errors on their credit report, and to enhance their 
overall financial standing.” The company also stated that Applicant “has open disputes 
regarding inaccurately reported tradelines. We are working diligently, filing disputes, 
official complaints, and identify theft reports as necessary, to ameliorate these issues as 
quickly as possible.” The letter did not detail when they were hired by Applicant or specify 
which accounts they were working to resolve. There is no indication that any accounts 
had successfully been resolved or that any payment agreements had been reached. 
(Response) 
Personal Conduct  
T
he SOR further alleged that Applicant falsified his June 2022 SCA by failing to 
disclose he had been delinquent in paying child support (SOR ¶ 2.a) or had any 
4 
 
 
 
 
     
   
   
  
   
  
    
 
 
   
    
 
   
   
   
 
     
   
    
  
 
 
   
    
    
  
 
     
  
  
    
   
 
  
 
    
     
  
      
  
 
 
  
    
      
delinquent debts (SOR ¶ 2.b) in the prior seven years. Applicant denied that he falsified 
his June 2022 SCA. He stated during his August 2022 interview that he did not list his 
child-support arrearage by “oversight.” At the time he submitted his SCA, Applicant was 
making monthly child-support payments. While the account was in arrearage at the time, 
it was not until about July 2022 that he learned he owed an additional $40,000 in 
arrearage payments for his fourth child. He then volunteered details of his child- support 
obligations during his interview and in subsequent interrogatory responses . (Answer; 
Response; GX 5-7) 
Regarding Applicant’s failure to disclose other delinquent debts in the June 2022 
SCA, he stated he had not reviewed his credit report and was unaware of his delinquent 
accounts. He then volunteered details of his accounts in his August 2022 interview and 
in subsequent interrogatory responses. In his Answer, Applicant also detailed that he had 
difficulty navigating the application on the computer and that he made a mistake in not 
providing details of his accounts. (Answer; Response; GX 5-7) 
Throughout his August 2022 interview, initial interrogatory responses, Answer and 
Response, Applicant detailed his expertise as a marine electrician and declared his pride 
for his work on Naval vessels. He stated he was working to take care of his debts and 
meet all his responsibilities. (Answer; Response; GX 7) 
Policies  
It is well established that no one has a right to a security clearance. As the 
Supreme Court held in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent standard 
indicates that security determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” 484 
U.S. 518, 531 (1988) 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines . In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
5 
 
 
 
 
  
     
  
 
       
       
    
  
    
 
   
  
   
   
    
     
     
      
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
    
 
    
 
    
   
  
      
 
 
    
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical , and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. Likewise, I have not draw n inferences grounded on mere 
speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Analysis  
Guideline F, Financial Considerations  
The security concern relating to the guideline for financial considerations is set out 
in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. . . . 
The financial security concern is broader than the possibility that an individual 
might knowingly compromise classified information to raise money. It encompasses 
concerns about an individual’s self -control, judgment, and other qualities essential to 
protecting classified information. An individual who is financially irresponsible may also 
be irresponsible, unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding classified 
information. See ISCR Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012) 
The adjudicative guideline notes several conditions that could raise security 
concerns under AG ¶ 19. The following are potentially applicable: 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
       
  
       
    
      
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
   
   
   
(a)  i
nability to satisfy  debts;  and  
(c)  a history of  n ot meeting financial obligations.  
Appl
icant’s admissions and the evidence reflect that he is in significant arrearage 
with child -support payments and incurred multiple delinquent accounts over the last 
several years. The above disqualifying conditions are established. 
Once delinquent debts are established, an applicant has the burden of presenting 
evidence to refute, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the security concerns arising from those 
debts. See ISCR 20-03146 at 3 (App. Bd. June 6, 2022). The fact that a debt no longer 
appears on a credit report does not establish any meaningful, independent evidence as 
to the disposition of the debt. See ISCR Case No. 14-03612 at 3 (App. Bd. Aug. 15, 2015). 
Conditions that could mitigate the financial considerations security concerns are 
provided under AG ¶ 20. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
und
er such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good judgment;  
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial  pr oblem were largely beyond  
the per son's  control (e.g.,  loss of  employment, a business downturn,  
unexpected medical  emergency, a death, divorce or separation, clear  
victimization by  predatory  lending practi ces, or identity theft),  and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
(c) the individual  has  received or is receiving financial counseling for the  
problem from  a legitimate and credible source, such as a non- profit credit  
counseling service,  and there are clear indications that the problem is being 
resolved or is under control;  
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- f aith effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  and  
(e) the individual has  a r easonable basis to  dispute the legitimacy  of the 
past-due debt which is  the cause of the problem and provides documented  
proof to substantiate the basis of  the dispute or provides evidence of  actions  
to resolve the issue.  
Wi
th regard to SOR allegation ¶ 1.a, Applicant began making child-support 
payments in 2008. He acknowledged that there were breaks in payments during times 
when he was unemployed or for a few months after he started new employment. 
However, about $40,000 of his arrearage came as a surprise in 2022 when he learned 
he owed child support for his fourth child. An arrearage calculated based on a retroactive 
7 
 
 
 
 
  
     
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
    
     
     
    
   
   
 
    
     
      
     
      
     
   
  
   
  
   
 
  
   
 
    
    
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
     
  
child-support award is not the same as a balance that accrued due to intentional default. 
See ISCR Case No. 20-03456 at 3 (App. Bd. June 15, 2023). Evidence reflects that, with 
only a 2-month break in payments in 2022, he maintained child -support payments from 
December 2021 through February 2025. He has budgeted for ongoing payments. 
Additionally, as his children are now all adults, he no longer has ongoing child- support 
obligations, and the balance of the arrearage is decreasing. Given the extensive histor y 
of child -support payments and the reduction in the arrearage, SOR ¶ 1.a is mitigated 
under AG ¶¶ 20(b) and 20(d). 
In relation to the remaining debts, Applicant experienced periods of unemployment 
for about six months from 2016 into 2017 and again for most of 2022 . During an 
unspecified period, his wife also experienced cancer and required surgery. In addition to 
the likely emotional toll these events had on him , they were also unforeseen, unlikely to 
recur and negatively impacted his financial circumstances. Mitigation under AG ¶¶ 20(a) 
and 20(b) must be considered. 
However, since first discussing his debts during his August 2022 interview, 
Applicant has not established that he paid or otherwise resolved any of the remaining 
SOR alleged debts. Further, his November 2024 credit report reflects ongoing debts as 
well as a new medical debt of $10,971. While this additional debt was not alleged in the 
SOR, it undercuts assertions of mitigation as his financial issues remain recent and 
ongoing. He has not established that his financial problems are under control. Mitigation 
under AG ¶¶ 20(a) and 20(b) is not applicable to SOR allegations ¶¶ 1.b through 1.g. 
Additionally, Applicant was an “active client” of a credit repair company as of March 
2025. However, he has not established that he received any financial counseling through 
their services. Mitigation under AG ¶ 20(c) is not applicable. While the company stated 
that Applicant has “open disputes” in relation to his credit report, neither they nor Applicant 
specified which accounts were being contested or provided documented proof to 
substantiate the basis of the disputes. Mitigation under AG ¶ 20(e) is not applicable. 
Applicant continues to experience financial difficulties. Although his current 
employment has provided consistent work and income, he has not yet established a 
sufficient track record of debt resolution to mitigate the ongoing financial security 
concerns. 
Guideline E,  Personal Conduct  
The security concern relating to personal conduct is set out in AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
 
   
 
    
  
    
 
   
 
 
     
    
    
    
 
 
   
 
    
   
 
 
cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national security  
investigative or  adjudicative processes. …  
The adjudicative guideline notes several conditions that could raise security 
concerns under AG ¶ 16. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a) 
 deliberate omission, concealment, or falsification of relevant facts from  
any personnel  security questionnaire, personal  history  statement,  or similar  
form  used to conduct investigations, determine employment qualifications,  
award benefits or  status, deter mine national security eligibility or  
trustworthiness, or  award fiduciary responsibilities.  
Whe
n a falsification allegation is controverted, as in this case, the Government has 
the burden of proving it. An omission, standing alone, does not prove falsification. An 
administrative judge must consider the record evidence as a whole to determine an 
applicant’s state of mind at the time of the omission. See ISCR Case No. 03-09483 at 4 
(App. Bd. Nov. 17, 2004) An applicant’s experience and level of education are relevant to 
determining whether a failure to disclose relevant information on a security clearance 
application was deliberate. See ISCR Case No. 08-05637 (App. Bd. Sep. 9, 2010) 
Applicant failed to disclose his child- support arrearage or any financial 
delinquencies in his June 2022 SCA. During his August 2022 interview, he admitted it 
was an oversight to not include those debts in his SCA and subsequently provided details 
on all his delinquent accounts. He provided further details and a child -support payment 
record in his responses to interrogatories. In considering his age, education and 
experience, I find that he did not intentionally provide false information about his finances 
in his SCA. As such, security concerns under AG ¶ 16(a) are not established. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
9 
 
 
 
 
  
  
     
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
   
   
    
 
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
   
 
    
 
      
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guideline F and Guideline E in my whole-person analysis. 
Applicant has experienced an extended period of financial difficulties. While he is 
credited with establishing a track record of payments toward his child- support arrearage 
and disclosing details of his financial circumstances through the investigatory process, he 
has not taken reasonable steps to resolve his remaining delinquent accounts. I conclude 
he has not mitigated the financial considerations security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  Guideline F:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph 1.a:  
  For
 Applicant 
Subparagraphs 1.b -1.g:   Agai
nst Applicant 
Paragraph 2,  Guideline E:   FO
R APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  2.a-2. b:  For A
pplicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances, it is not clearly consistent with the national 
interest to grant Applicant a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified 
information is denied. 
Bryan J. Olmos 
Administrative Judge 
10 