 
                                                
 
 
                                                                                                                    
          
           
             
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
    
 
______________________________________ 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of:   )  
        )  
        )  ADP Case  No.  23-02025   
   )   
   )  
Applicant for  Public Trust Position   )  
______________________________________)  
Appearances  
For Government: Mark D. Lawton, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
05/21/2025 
Decision 
MURPHY, Braden M., Administrative Judge: 
The Statement of Reasons concerns allegations of trustworthiness concerns under 
Guideline J (criminal conduct), Guideline F (financial considerations), and Guideline E 
(personal conduct). Applicant did not provide sufficient evidence to mitigate 
trustworthiness concerns under Guidelines J or Guideline F.  Guideline E trustworthiness 
concerns are either not established or are sufficiently addressed under other guidelines 
so they are resolved favorably. Applicant’s eligibility for access to sensitive information is 
denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a Questionnaire for National Security Positions (application) 
on November 8. 2022, in connection with his employment in the defense industry. On 
November 16, 2023, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued Applicant a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) detailing trustworthiness concerns under Guideline J, Guideline F, and 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
    
   
   
 
    
  
 
     
    
 
     
  
 
   
  
      
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
       
    
    
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
Guideline E. The DOD took the action under Executive Order 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive); and the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines (AG) 
effective within the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
On November 17, 2023, Applicant answered the SOR and elected a decision on 
the administrative (written) record, instead of a hearing before an administrative judge 
from the Defense Office of Hearings & Appeals (DOHA). The case was assigned to the 
Department Counsel’s office on December 4, 2023. On December 12, 2023, the assigned 
Department Counsel exercised his right to request a hearing within 20 days of receipt, as 
provided under Paragraph E.3.1.7 of the Additional Procedural Guidance of Directive 
5220.6. Department Counsel notified Applicant of that election by memo and letter the 
same date. (Hearing Exhibit (HE) III) (See discussion below). 
The case was assigned to me on September 10, 2024. On October 4, 2024, 
following consultation with the parties, DOHA issued a notice scheduling an in- person 
hearing for November 15, 2024. On November 1, 2024, the hearing date was changed to 
November 14, 2024, again by mutually agreement, and an amended hearing notice was 
duly issued. (Tr. 7-8) 
The hearing convened as rescheduled. Department Counsel submitted 
Government’s Exhibits (GE) 1 through 9. Applicant testified and submitted Applicant’s 
Exhibits (AE) A through E. Applicant Exhibits A and B were attached to his SOR 
Response. All exhibits were admitted without objection. At the end of the hearing, I left 
the record open to allow Applicant the opportunity to submit additional information. On 
December 9, 2024, Applicant submitted one exhibit (AE F) and a statement by email (AE 
G). Both exhibits were admitted without objection. DOHA received the hearing transcript 
(Tr.) on November 25, 2024. The record initially closed on December 9, 2024. 
Post-Hearing Procedural Matters  
In May 2025, while reviewing the record in preparing this decision, I noticed two 
procedural matters that both warranted addressing. 
First, in describing preliminary matters at the start of the hearing, I erroneously 
stated that when Applicant answered the SOR, he “elected a hearing before an 
administrative judge.” (Tr. 5), instead of an “administrative decision.” Department 
Counsel’s December 2023 memorandum converting the case to a hearing was also not 
in the record. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
   
  
 
 
   
  
   
    
   
   
    
 
 
 
      
       
 
 
   
 
 
  
   
   
 
  
 
    
 
   
  
  
Ac
cordingly, on May 12, 2025, I emailed the parties to inform them of this matter 
and to provide a copy of Department Counsel’s December 2023 letter and memo. (HE III, 
HE IV). I gave the parties two days to acknowledge receipt and they did so. There is no 
issue to resolve as to the validity of the hearing itself, since the parties both appeared and 
participated fully without incident. 
Second, I neglected to send Applicant a Personal Financial Statement (PFS) to fill 
out and submit after the hearing, as I said I would do. (Tr. 54, 72-74, 134-137) Therefore, 
on May 15, 2025, I emailed the parties and briefly reopened the record to give Applicant 
the opportunity to submit a completed PFS and to document his current income. (HE V) 
Applicant submitted a recent paystub (AE H), documentation of his VA benefit 
compensation (AE I), and a completed PFS with a spreadsheet attached (AE J). Those 
three documents were marked and admitted without objection. The record closed on May 
19, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 2.a, 2.c -2.f, 2.h, and 3.a, with explanations for 
most of these allegations. He denied SOR ¶¶ 2.b, 2.g (in part), 2.i, 2.j, and 3.b, with 
explanations. SOR ¶¶ 2.a and 3.a are cross-allegations. His admissions are incorporated 
into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits 
submitted, I make the following findings of fact. 
 A
pplicant is 45 years old. He and his  former wife married in 2003 and divorced in  
2023. They have three  children,  ages 25, 20,  and 15. He served on active duty in the U.S.  
Army from June 1998 until September 2012. He reached the enlisted rank of sergeant  
first class (E-7) and was promoted in 2007 to  warrant officer, achieving the rank of CWO-
2. He received a general discharge under other than honorable conditions following the  
events  alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a. He held a clearance when he was in the Army. Applic ant 
and his  former wife share custody of their youngest child,  a daughter. He pays $432 a  
month in child support. (GE 1; Tr.  12, 51-53, 113-114, 119-120)  
F
ollowing his discharge from the Army, Applicant was unemployed, from October 
2012 to April 2015. During some of this period (July 2013 to April 2015) he was in prison. 
After his release, he was self-employed as a personal trainer from April 2015 to February 
2018. He spent the next three years working for a lighting company, until February 2021, 
when he started his current position as a logistics analyst for a defense contractor, the 
job for which he seeks a determination of public trust. (GE 1; 54-57, 71-73, 103-104) 
In about 2009 to 2010, Applicant was assigned to an Army unit in State 1. He was 
responsible for ordering equipment and supplies for various Army units in the region. He 
was responsible for $25 million worth of equipment. In 2010, Applicant transferred t o an 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
  
  
 
   
  
  
   
 
 
    
    
   
    
 
 
 
  
    
    
  
     
 
 
     
   
 
  
Army unit in State 2. From about 2010 to 2011, in both places, Applicant made over $10 
million in unauthorized purchases of items such as high- end engineering equipment, 
computer equipment, and power tools, and charged them to the Army. He made the 
purchases over a U.S. government website. He used fake usernames, passwords, points 
of contact, and approving officials. He used his own cell number as a point of contact. 
Many deliveries were made to a warehouse in State 2, to Applicant’s home address, or 
to a cousin. Applicant would sell the items for between 10% and 20% of their retail value 
at local swap meets, on Craig’s List over the internet, and to third parties. Applicant’s 
actions were discovered during a government audit of the supply purchases of his u nit. 
(GE 16-18; GE 2 at 5-6; Tr. 78-84) 
Applicant explained that the events  began when his Army  unit in State 1had an  
extra tool kit that  had been purchased but  went unused. He said the company first  
sergeant told him that  the kit could not  be returned and that he could “just take it home”  
and “sell it or something.” Applicant sold the kit for $100 to a workman who came to his  
house. The workman then asked for more tools. Eventually two brothers approached him  
asking to buy  20 or 30 tool kits at a time,  so Applicant purchased those as well and  
shipped them to the buyers, in exchange for money.  In about October 2011, around the  
time Applicant learned of the audit, he said  he began having second thoughts. (Tr. 57-
59)Around this time, Applicant’s old Army  unit reached out to him.  He said he met with  
his commander, admitted that he “really messed up,” and asked how he could “make this  
right.” (Tr. 60-63)  
In October 2011, Applicant was charged with four federal criminal offenses: 1) theft 
of government property; 2) making a false statement; 3) making unlawful currency 
transactions; and 4) conspiracy. The FBI sheet indicates he was convicted of all four 
charges. (SOR ¶ 1.a) (GE 4 at 6; Tr. 131-132) 
In May 2013, Applicant pled guilty to count 1, theft of government property. He was 
sentenced to 30 months in federal prison and three years of supervised release. He was 
ordered to perform 120 hours of community service. He was also ordered to pay 
restitution to the U.S. government in the amount of about $10,205,000.  Applicant served 
21 months of his 30- month jail term, from July 2013 to April 2015. His probation ended 
successfully in 2018.The court documents regarding this proceeding, reference only one 
count of theft of government property charge, and not the other counts. (GE 1, GE 3; Tr. 
63-65) 
The government also seized certain assets of Applicant’s, including three vehicles, 
about $170,000 in cash provided to the FBI, and five bank accounts holding about 
$274,000. He was also required to resign from the Army with a discharge under other 
than honorable conditions, and he had to cooperate fully with the prosecution. (GE 3 at 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
   
 
     
 
 
 
   
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
 
   
   
 
 
  
 
   
  
    
 
  
   
     
 
4-7) At the time the SOR was issued, he still owed the U.S. Government about 
$8,000,000. (SOR ¶ 1.a, cross-alleged at SOR ¶¶ 2.a, 3.a) 
On his Application, Applicant disclosed his felony charge, conviction, and jail term, 
as well as his Army discharge. (GE 1 at 12, 22- 23; Tr. 123) In his testimony, he denied, 
however, that he had ever been indicted, arrested, or taken into custody (before going to 
jail). He said when he was contacted by the FBI, he “immediately started cooperating.” 
As part of his plea deal, Applicant cooperated with the government in providing evidence 
against the two brothers involved in the conspiracy who had bought many of the 
government items from Applicant. He is credited in the sentencing documentation with 
rendering “substantial assistance” to the investigation. (Tr. 63-65; GE 2 at 5-6; GE 3) 
According to Applicant’s background interview, he said that at some point in about 
2011, after he had been contacted by the FBI, he withdrew about $100,000 from one of 
his bank accounts and took the $100,000 (in stolen government funds) to Las Vegas to 
enter a poker tournament to try to win back the $10 million he owed the government. 
(SOR ¶ 2.b) This was unsuccessful. He was advised by the prosecuting U.S. attorney not 
to do that again, as the trial court would not look favorably on his efforts to pay off his debt 
to the U.S. government through gambling. (GE 2 at 10) 
Applicant denied this allegation in the SOR and testified that this “absolutely never 
happened.” (Tr. 40, 66, 88) He acknowledged going to Las Vegas, but for a “boys’ trip” 
with his cousins and not a gambling tournament, in February 2011. He said he engages 
in gambling on occasion, including on a recent trip to Las Vegas. (Tr. 84- 89) Applicant 
authenticated the summary of his January 2023 background interview in an October 2023 
interrogatory response. The limited changes he made did not concern the details in the 
interview summary about the Las Vegas trip. (GE 2) 
Applicant acknowledged committing fraud on the government, and said what he 
did was “a very bad, poor lapse of judgment.” He said he had no excuse and said that he 
had been paying restitution regularly. He said through forfeitures and restitution 
payments, he had paid back about $2 million of the $10 million he owed. (Tr. 33, 36- 39) 
After the hearing, he verified monthly payments from July 2023 to November 2024 of 
between $100 and $300, but mostly $150 a month (AE G), though he said he has been 
making regular restitution since at least 2015, or earlier. He said when he sold his house, 
$109,000 of the proceeds went towards restitution also. (Tr. 39-41) He said he intends to 
continue paying the restitution and expects to do so for the rest of his life. (Tr. 129) 
Applicant has had no subsequent criminal offenses. He believes he remains a 
registered voter but his home state has a law prohibiting voters who still owe restitution 
from voting, so he does not want to run afoul of that law by voting. (Tr. 66, 121-122) 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
  
 
  
  
    
     
 
 
   
  
  
   
  
   
 
   
 
   
      
  
 
     
    
   
   
 
 
  
   
    
 
   
Applicant experienced financial problems after he was released from prison. He 
made a limited income as a personal trainer. In 2018, he and his wife filed for Chapter 13 
bankruptcy protection. They made about $80,000 in payments into the bankruptcy plan 
over the next three years, until the bankruptcy was voluntarily dismissed in 2021 because 
they stopped making payments. (Tr. 33-35; AE E; GE 5, GE 6) (SOR ¶ 2.c) 
The SOR debts alleged under Guideline F are largely consumer debts, listed on 
credit reports from December 2022 and July 2023. (GE 7, GE 8) There are also credit 
reports from December 2023 and November 2024. (GE 9, AE C) These seven debts 
(SOR ¶¶ 2.d – 2.j) total about $136,273. 
Applicant said he reached out  to his creditors after the bankruptcy. He said the  
only the creditor for the debt at SOR ¶ 2.g, proposed a settlement agreement. The other  
creditors said the debts had been charged off. He also said he sent them documentation 
that they  also received payments through the  bankruptcy  before it was dismissed. (Tr. 35,  
48) He said he assumed all of the joint marital debts  through the divorce and  
acknowledged being obligated for them.  (Tr. 114-115)   
SOR ¶ 2.d ($18,451) is a past-due debt that has been charged off by a credit union. 
(GE 7, 8) This was a loan Applicant took out in about 2016 after he was released from 
prison. He said this creditor told him the debt had been charged off once the bankrupt cy 
was dismissed. He sent a letter to the creditor but has made no payments on the debt 
since the dismissal, though he acknowledged responsibility for doing so. (Tr. 36, 47- 48, 
89-94) This debt is unresolved. 
SOR ¶ 2.e ($12,172) is a past-due debt that has been charged off by a bank. GE 
6 at 6, GE 7, GE 8, GE 9) Applicant said this debt is a loan or line of credit. He sent a 
letter to the creditor but said they told him the debt had been charged off once the 
bankruptcy was dismissed. He has made no subsequent payments and said he would 
look into it. (Tr. 36, 47-48, 94-95) This debt is unresolved. 
SOR ¶ 2.f ($9,597) is a past -due account that has been charged off by a bank. 
(GE 6 at 6; GE 7, GE 8) Applicant said this debt is for a credit card. He sent a letter to the 
creditor and was told the debt had been charged off once the bankruptcy was dismissed. 
He has made no subsequent payments. (Tr. 36, 47-48, 95-96) This debt is unresolved. 
SOR ¶ 2.g ($11,432) is the deficiency balance on a repossessed auto. (GE 7) 
Applicant denied this debt in his SOR response and said he was making payments. 
Government Exhibit 8 shows a balance of $9,432 and AE C, shows a balance of $5,682 
as of November 2024. He said he current on his agreement to pay this creditor $250 a 
month, and he will continue paying on it. (AE C at 21; AE D; Tr. 35- 36, 43-47, 110-111, 
129-130) This debt is being resolved. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
  
   
     
  
     
  
 
  
   
  
   
    
  
 
   
    
 
  
 
    
     
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
  
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
SOR ¶ 2.h ($55,744) is a past-due debt to a credit union for an account identified 
in Applicant’s 2018 bankruptcy. (GE 6 at 6) He said this is a credit-card account taken out 
by his wife to finance construction of a swimming pool at their home. They also used 
financing from another lender, creditor S, a creditor noted in the bankruptcy, for about 
$52,000. He said the creditor for SOR debt ¶ 2.h told him the debt had been charged off 
once the bankruptcy was dismissed. He believes he may have received an IRS Form 
1099-C regarding this debt but did not produce it. (Tr. 36, 47- 48, 96-98, 116-118; AE A) 
This debt is not resolved. 
SOR ¶ 2.i ($18,828) is a past -due account to a creditor identified in Applicant’s 
2018 bankruptcy. (GE 6 at 6) He denied this debt in his SOR response and said he did 
not recognize it. But he testified that this may be creditor S, within whom he partially 
financed the pool. He asserted that his credit report (AE C) reflects that the account has 
been paid off, but AE C does not show this. (Tr. 98- 100, 111- 112) This debt is not 
resolved. 
SOR ¶ 2.j ($10,049) is a past -due debt to a bank for an account identified in 
Applicant’s 2018 bankruptcy. (GE 6 at 6) He denied this debt in his SOR response and 
said it was paid by proceeds from a vehicle sale. AE C did not verify this. (Tr. 100- 103) 
This debt is not resolved. 
Applicant said he is current on his monthly expenses. He had credit counseling 
during the bankruptcy but not after he received the SOR. (Tr. 109- 110, 119) He plans to 
reach out to his creditors and will comply with any requests to send money. (Tr. 130) 
Under Guideline E, the Government alleged that, while Applicant disclosed his 
2018 bankruptcy on his application, he answered “Yes” to the question, “Were you 
discharged of all debts in the bankruptcy,” when in fact the bankruptcy petition had been 
dismissed for failure to make payments. (GE 1 at 26; GE 6) (SOR ¶ 3.b) He also 
commented on his application that his bankruptcy was “dismissed and done.” (GE 1 at 
27) 
In his testimony, Applicant denied reporting that his bankruptcy had been 
“discharged,” and said he “always refer[ed] to it as ‘dismissed,’ because that’s what the 
motion was -- this Motion to Dismiss.” He continued, “And I did say ‘dismissed and done’ 
because once the bankruptcy is dismissed, it technically is done. . . . because you go 
back to paying your creditors and not the trustee.” (Tr. 69) He said, “a discharge is when 
it's completely over and you paid . . . your seven years.” (Tr. 68) He denied the allegation 
of intentional falsification as to SOR ¶ 3.b. (Tr. 71) 
Applicant acknowledged understanding the difference between a bankruptcy 
discharge and a dismissal. He acknowledged familiarity with clearance applications, 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
    
    
 
  
   
     
  
 
    
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
  
 
     
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
    
 
   
   
      
    
 
    
    
having completed several since 1999 through the Army. He understood the importance 
of providing complete, accurate, and truthful answers on a clearance (or trustworthiness) 
application. He asserted that this was why he put “dismissed and done” in the comment 
section on the next page, though he said he “just honestly hit the wrong box on that. (GE 
1; Tr. 75-76) He did not report any of the unresolved bankruptcy debts as “charged off” 
or “past due” elsewhere on his application. (GE 1; Tr. 124-128) 
Applicant provided a July 2020 email exchange with his bankruptcy attorney’s 
paralegal, in which he asked about dismissing the Chapter 13 petition. Applicant reported 
that he and his wife did not want to convert their bankruptcy petition to Chapter 7, because 
they would have to sell their house. He was advised that: 
The only way to get your Ch13 dismissed would be for failure to make 
payments, which would result in the Trustee filing a motion to dismiss your 
case. Once your case is dismissed, creditors who are still owed a balance 
with [sic] have legal right to seek remaining payment from you and your 
wife. However, you can still reach out to each creditor and make 
arrangements to pay whatever balance is still unpaid. (AE E) 
Applicant responded, 
We are fine with that. So I can reach out to each creditor and if they want 
payment for anything then make arrangements with them and pay them 
directly or however they see fit. We will make this last payment and then 
stop. I will give [the attorney] a call later this afternoon. Thank you. 
(AE E; Tr. 76-77) Applicant said he made payments on the bankruptcy until about January 
2021. (Tr. 77-78; AE B) 
In his closing testimony and in a post-hearing written statement, Applicant made a 
plea for a second chance. He noted that he is a rehabilitated non- violent offender. He 
cited his educational opportunities, vocational training, and community service. He has 
served for many years working with youths as a volunteer sports coach and teacher. He 
said past mistakes do not define a person’s future potential. (Tr. 142-149; AE F) 
Applicant’s post-hearing submissions in May 2025 included an April 2025 paystub 
showing he earns a gross salary of $3,833 every two weeks (AE H) (or about $7,666 
every month), for an annual salary of about $92,000. He also receives $4,431 per month 
from the VA as compensation for 100% service-connected disabilities. (AE I) 
According to his May 2025 Personal Financial Statement, he has about $9,482 in 
monthly net income from his job and VA compensation combined, about $5,000 in 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
 
     
  
   
  
    
   
   
 
 
 
    
   
 
     
 
 
  
    
  
  
  
    
      
  
    
 
   
  
 
 
     
    
   
  
  
 
monthly expenses, and about $3500 in debt payments (several credit cards, a car 
payment, a loan, and $350 a month in restitution). This leaves a monthly remainder of 
about $970. Applicant did not note any payments towards any SOR debts beyond the 
criminal restitution. (AE J) 
Applicant did not submit any exhibits as “character evidence” for consideration 
under the whole- person concept. However, GE 3 includes a sentencing memorandum 
prepared by his criminal defense counsel, for consideration by the sentencing judge in 
2013. It includes various attachments, including documentation of completion of various 
re-sentencing classes and programs, reference letters, military evaluation reports, and 
his military decorations. These included the Combat Action Badge, two Meritorious 
Service Medals, two Army Commendation Medals, and five Army Achievement Medals. 
(GE 3) 
Policies  
It is well established that no one has a right to a security clearance, or as here, 
eligibility for a position of public trust. As the Supreme Court has held, “the clearly 
consistent standard indicates that security and trustworthiness determinations should err, 
if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 
(1988). 
The adjudicative guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all av ailable, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 
2(b) requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for access to 
classified information will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this 
decision, I have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on 
the evidence contained in the record. Likewise, I have avoided drawing inferences 
grounded on mere speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel, and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable security decision.” 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
 
  
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
     
  
   
 
   
   
 
  
 
     
 
 
 
A person who seeks access to sensitive information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
sensitive information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
that an applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard sensitive information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of sensitive information. 
Analysis  
Guideline J: Criminal Conduct 
 
AG
 ¶ 30 details the trustworthiness concern for criminal conduct: 
Criminal activity creates doubt  about a person's judgment, reliability, and  
trustworthiness. By its  very nature, it calls into question a person's  ability or  
willingness to comply  with laws, rules,  and regulations.  
AG ¶ 31 describes conditions that could raise a trustworthiness concern and may 
be disqualifying. The following disqualifying condition is applicable: 
(b) evidence (including, but not limited to, a credible allegation, an 
admission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of  
whether the individual  was formally charged,  prosecuted, or convicted.   
The Government’s evidence varies as to how many federal charges Applicant 
formally faced. The FBI rap sheet (GE 4) suggests he faced four charges, while the court 
documents (GE 3) indicate he was formally charged with one count of theft of government 
property, with no mention made of the others. While the end result is the same, I give 
greater weight to GE 3 and consider that there is one count involved here. 
In May 2013, Applicant pled guilty to count 1, theft of government property. He 
was sentenced to 30 months in federal prison and three years of supervised release. He 
was ordered to perform 120 hours of community service. He was also ordered to pay 
restitution to the U.S. government in the amount of $10.2 million, in $150 monthly 
payments, to begin once he was released from prison. Applicant served 21 months of his 
30-month jail term, from July 2013 to April 2015. His probation ended in 2018. He still 
owes about $8 million in restitution. AG ¶ 31(b) applies. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
 
 
 
     
   
   
   
  
   
   
  
 
   
  
    
     
         
    
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
AG ¶ 32 sets forth the potentially applicable mitigating conditions: 
(a) so much time has  el
 apsed since the criminal behavior happened, or it  
happened under such unusual circumstances, that it is unlikely to recur and  
does not cast doubt on the individual's reliability, trustworthiness,  or good  
judgment; and  
(d) there is evidence of successful rehabilitation; including, but not limited  
t
o, the passage of time without recurrence of criminal activity, restitution,  
compliance with the terms of parole or  probation, job training or higher  
education, good employment  record,  or constructive community  
involvement.  
Appl
icant stole over $10.2 million from the U.S Government for a significant period 
of time, in about 2010-2011. This was many years ago, and he is no longer on probation 
and has not had any other criminal offenses. But he is still responsible for millions in 
restitution. And the amount of money involved strongly indicates that this was a 
continuous course of conduct rather an isolated incident. His admissions in his plea 
agreement show that this was a scheme with significant planning involved, and not a 
simple crime of serendipity that occurred on the spur of the moment. Applicant also 
engaged in a pattern of stealing from his employer, the U.S. Government, while serving 
in the Army, including as a warrant officer, with a clearance. He was discharged under 
other than honorable conditions (which is a disqualifying condition under Guideline J, 
though I have not considered it as such here, since it was not alleged). Applicant has a 
good work record since he left prison and is paying his restitution regularly. But the 
amount of money involved and the fact that he did what he did while in a position of public 
trust weighs heavily against full application of either AG ¶¶ 32(a) or 32(d). Further, the 
fact that Applicant owes millions in restitution and also has numerous outstanding 
delinquent debts (as discussed below) is additional evidence that a significant risk of 
recurrence remains. 
Guideline F:  Financial Considerations  
The trustworthiness concern relating to the guideline for financial considerations is 
set out, in relevant part, in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. . . . An individual who is financially 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
   
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
      
   
  
 
 
       
 
  
  
    
   
 
 
    
  
    
   
overextended is at  greater risk of having to engage in illegal  or otherwise 
questionable acts to generate funds. . . .  
This concern is broader than the possibility that an individual might knowingly 
compromise classified or sensitive information in order to raise money. It encompasses 
concerns about an individual’s self -control, judgment, and other qualities essential to 
protecting classified or sensitive information. An individual who is financially irresponsible 
may also be irresponsible, unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding 
classified or sensitive information. ISCR Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012). 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise trustworthiness concerns 
under AG ¶ 19. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a)  inability to satisfy  deb
 ts;   
(c) a history of not  m eeting financial  obligations;   
(d) deceptive or illegal financial practices such as embezzlement, employee  
t
heft, check fraud,  expense account fraud,  mortgage fraud, filing deceptive  
loan statements  and other intentional financial breaches of trust; and  
(h) borrowing money or engaging in significant financial transactions to fund  
gam
bling or pay gambling debts.   
Appl
icant engaged in a pattern of stealing U.S. government property from his 
employer. AG ¶ 19(d) applies. His ongoing delinquent debts establish AG ¶¶ 19(a) and 
19(c). 
Despite Applicant’s denials, I find that it is more likely than not that he took 
$100,000 of ill-gotten government money out of one of his bank accounts and went to Las 
Vegas to try to earn $10 million in gambling winnings once he was under investigation by 
the FBI. Applicant discussed this event in detail in his background interview and then 
authenticated the interview summary without making any changes to what he supposedly 
said in that regard. And the information in the interview is not only very specific, it is very 
plausible, especially concerning what the prosecutors told him about how the court would 
react to his efforts to pay off his debt to the U.S. government through gambling. While 
what Applicant did does not here fit neatly into a specific Guide line F disqualifying 
condition, I find that he engaged in a “significant financial transaction” to “fund gambling” 
and thereby attempt to pay his overwhelming debt to the U.S. Government in this manner. 
AG ¶ 19(h) applies to SOR ¶ 2.b. (And even if it doesn’t specifically apply, this does not 
alter my overall analysis) that what he did is a security concern and an act of desperation 
and poor judgment. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
   
 
    
  
    
 
  
  
  
 
      
The guideline also includes conditions that could mitigate trustworthiness concerns 
arising from financial difficulties. The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 are 
potentially applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
und
er such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good judgment;  
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial  pr oblem were largely beyond  
the person’s control  (e.g., loss of employment, a business  downturn,  
unexpected medical emergency, or a death, divorce or separation, clear  
victimization by  predatory  lending practices, or identity theft), and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
(c) the individual  has  received or is receiving financial counseling for the  
problem from  a legitimate and credible source, such as a non- profit credit  
counseling service,  and there are clear indications that the problem is being  
resolved or is under control;  
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- f aith effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  and  
(e) the individual has  a r easonable basis to  dispute the legitimacy  of the 
past-due debt which is  the cause of the problem and provides documented  
proof to substantiate the basis of  the dispute or provides evidence of  actions  
to resolve the issue.   
Appl
icant’s debts are ongoing. He is not delinquent in his restitution payments, but 
they will continue for years to come, with no end in sight. He has numerous other debts 
that remain delinquent and ongoing. AG ¶ 20(a) does not apply. 
Applicant’s debts are attributable to his own actions (the restitution) or are the 
financial impact of his jail term, which led to delinquent debts which continue to this day. 
AG ¶ 20(b) does not apply. 
Applicant participated in credit counseling during his bankruptcy proceeding but 
not since then, and his debts are insurmountable and not under control. AG ¶ 20(c) does 
not apply. 
AG ¶ 20(d) does not fully apply to mitigate Applicant’s delinquent debts or his 
restitution debt to the government. He and his wife made a conscious decision to 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
    
   
 
   
  
   
    
 
      
 
   
 
  
  
     
  
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
    
      
 
  
  
 
     
     
terminate their bankruptcy petition by stopping payments into the plan. There is 
insufficient evidence of his subsequent attempts to reestablish contact with his creditors 
to responsibly address the debts which remain. The exception is the debt at SOR ¶ 2. g, 
which is being resolved under a responsible repayment plan. Applicant gets some credit 
for his good- faith efforts to address his $8 million in restitution to the U.S. government, 
since he has documented efforts for several years to address that debt. Bu t the amount 
he owes is so large that these efforts cannot have full mitigating effect. 
A delinquent debt is not considered mitigated because the creditor has charged off 
the account. This is because the creditor’s choice to charge off the debt for accounting 
purposes does not affect the debtor’s obligations to the creditor. ISCR Case No. 09-01175 
at 2 and fn. 1. (App. Bd. May 11, 2010). While some of Applicant’s debts may now be 
charged off, he remains responsible for them, and he did not provide documentation 
otherwise. AG ¶ 20(e) does not apply. 
Guideline E:  Personal Conduct  
AG ¶ 15 expresses the trustworthiness concern for personal conduct: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to 
cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes. . . 
AG ¶ 16 describes conditions that could raise a trustworthiness concern and may 
be disqualifying. The following disqualifying condition is potentially applicable: 
(a) deliberate omission, concealment,  or falsification of relevant facts from  
any personnel  security questionnaire, personal  history  statement,  or similar  
form used to conduct investigations . . .  determine national security eligibility  
or trustworthiness,  or award fiduciary responsibilities.  
Under Guideline E, the SOR alleged that Applicant falsified his November 2022 
application in checking a box that indicated that his 2018 bankruptcy debts had been 
“discharged” when in fact the bankruptcy was dismissed because he and his wife decided 
to stop making payments into the plan. Taken by itself, this statement was incorrect and 
false, since his debts were not discharged. However, a full and fair reading of Applicant’s 
answer to this question must include his comment that his bankruptcy was “dismiss ed 
and done” on the next page. This explanation was more accurate, though he gave no 
indication elsewhere in the Financial Record section of his application that any of his 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
   
     
     
  
 
   
  
  
   
 
   
 
      
 
  
    
   
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
     
 
 
  
       
debts were delinquent. He also denied any intent to falsify his application, which puts the 
burden on the Government to establish that he was lying. I think it quite unlikely that 
Applicant truthfully detailed several aspects of his felony conviction and j ail sentence on 
one part of his application, and deliberately sought to misrepresent the status of his 
bankruptcy on another part. I find that Applicant has rebutted the falsification allegation 
at SOR ¶ 2.b and AG ¶ 16(a) does not apply. 
The remaining trustworthiness concern under Guideline E is the cross -allegation 
of both the Guideline J criminal conduct trustworthiness concerns and the Guideline F 
financial considerations trustworthiness concerns of his criminal misdeeds and his debts 
(SOR ¶ 3.a, cross -alleging SOR ¶¶ paragraphs 1 and 2 and all subparagraphs, in full). 
While Applicant’s actions unquestionably establish the questionable judgment, lack of 
candor, dishonesty, and unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations that raise 
questions about his reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect sensitive information 
under the personal conduct guideline, those trustworthiness concerns are fully addressed 
under Guidelines J and F, above, and need not be addressed further here. 
Since the Guideline E allegations are either not established or are fully addressed 
elsewhere, I need not address potentially applicable mitigating conditions. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance or trustworthiness determination by 
considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct and all the circumstances. The 
administrative judge should consider the nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 
2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(a), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance or trustworthiness determination must be an overall commonsense 
judgment based upon careful consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person 
concept. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
     
 
    
   
   
  
     
   
    
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
    
 
 
 
      
    
 
     
 
       
 
     
   
   
   
    
 
     
 
       
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guidelines J, F, and E in my whole-person analysis. 
In his closing remarks, Applicant made an impassioned plea that he is rehabilitated 
and deserves a second chance. He has completed his jail term and probation, though he 
still owes about $8 million of the $10 million he stole from the Government. I cannot 
overlook that fact. Nor can I overlook the fact that Applicant has numerous unresolved 
delinquent debts, charged off or otherwise. This alone is enough to deny Applicant’s 
eligibility, even without factoring in his criminal conduct. And even though his offense is 
now quite dated, he once had the trust of the United States Government, and he abused 
it. That history as a direct bearing on Applicant’s eligibility for a position of public trust. 
And that history is far too much to overcome, particularly when combined with his ongoing 
insurmountable debts - including, of course, to the government. 
This case is not about punishment. It is about risk. And it is ultimately about 
whether it is in the national interest and in the interests of national security to entrust 
Applicant with access to sensitive information and once again in a position of public trust. 
Here, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts as to Applicant’s eligibility 
and suitability for a position of public trust. For all these reasons, I conclude that while the 
alleged personal conduct trustworthiness concerns are resolved favorably, Applicant did 
not mitigate the criminal conduct or financial considerations trustworthiness concerns are 
not mitigated. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline J:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph 1.a:  
   Agai
nst Applicant 
Paragraph 2, Guideline F:    AGAI
NST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 2.a-2 .f:    Agai
nst Applicant 
Subparagraph 2.g:     For
 Applicant 
Subparagraphs 2.h-2. j:  Agai
nst Applicant 
Paragraph 3, Guideline E:    FO
R APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 3.a-3. b:   For
 Applicant 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
     
 
                                                   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented, it is not clearly consistent with the 
interests of national security to grant Applicant eligibility for access to sensitive 
information. Eligibility for access to sensitive information is denied. 
Braden M. Murphy 
Administrative Judge 
17 