 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                             
     
               
          
             
 
    
  
                                                                       
   
  
 
 
 
 
     
  
 
 
 
 
        
                                                             
 
 
  
 
            
      
  
 
 
 
       
      
        
         
          
          
      
     
        
    
       
        
     
 
__________ 
__________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 23-02036 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: John C. Lynch, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
04/10/2025 
Remand Decision 
WESLEY, ROGER C., Administrative Judge 
Based upon a review of the case file, pleadings, and exhibits, Applicant did not 
mitigate financial consideration concerns. Eligibility f or access to classified information 
or to hold a sensitive position is denied. 
Statement of the Case 
On February 29, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS) issued a statement of reasons (SOR) 
to Applicant detailing reasons why under the financial considerations guideline the 
DCSA CAS could not mak e the preliminary affirmative determination of eligibility for 
granting a security clearance, and recommended referral to an administrative judge to 
determine whether a security clearance should be granted, continued, denied, or 
revoked. The action was taken under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified I nformation within Industry (February 20, 1960 ); Department of Defense 
(DoD) Directive 5220.6 Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
Program, (January 2, 1992) (Directive); and Security Executive Agent Directive 4, 
establishing in Appendix A the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for 
Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a 
Sensitive Position (AGs), effective June 8, 2017. 
1 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
          
             
           
           
        
 
       
       
         
       
          
     
   
      
 
  
 
       
     
      
          
 
 
          
           
          
     
         
 
 
       
      
           
      
        
  
 
             
      
  
 
 
    
       
   
Applicant responded to the SOR on July 8, 2024, and requested that his case be 
resolved on the written record without a hearing . Applicant received the FORM on 
October 22, 2024, and responded to the FORM (albeit beyond the 30 days allowed) 
with receipts of payments to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The Government’s 
case consisted of six exhibits and were admitted without objection as Items 1-6. 
Applicant’s post -FORM IRS receipts with a cover letter of December 17, 2024, 
were admitted without objection as Items 7 -9. His post -FORM payments consisted of 
the following: two IRS receipts (both dated November 21, 2024) totaling $8,108 and 
$11,891, respectively, and one IRS receipt for $3,366. (Items 7 -9) Applicant’s post -
FORM submissions also included a $9,000 payment receipt from the IRS, a November 
21, 2024, and an attached character reference from a former ranking Air National Guard 
and supervisor of Applicant in his Guard unit and longtime friend. (Items 10 -12) 
Applicant’s post -FORM submissions were received without objection. This case was 
assigned to me on January 2,  2025. 
Summary of Pleadings  
Under Guideline F, Applicant allegedly (a) failed to file his federal income tax 
returns for tax years 2014, 2017-2018, and 2020 -2022, as required; (b) is indebted to 
the Federal Government for delinquent taxes in excess of $74,000; and (c) is indebted 
to his state taxing agency for delinquent taxes in excess of $22,000 for the tax years in 
issue. 
In Applicant’s response to the SOR, he admitted all of the allegations. He 
claimed he filed all of the listed back federal tax returns, has no federal tax debt for tax 
year 2014, and is working on a payment plan to resolve his taxes owed for the 
remaining tax years. He claimed his belief that his state tax return for tax year 2014 was 
filed. He also claimed that he has paid the remaining balances owed to his state of 
residence for delinquent taxes owed for past tax years. 
Applicant claimed anxiety as a major reason for not timely filing his federal and 
state tax returns for the years in issue. He claim ed to have spent thousands of dollars 
trying to get out from under his current tax mess. And, he claimed to be an otherwise 
dependable person who has held a security clearance for many years and complied 
with security clearance requirements. Applicant attached copies of recent payments 
made to his state taxing agency totaling $15,200. 
In its remand decision, the Appeal Board ordered the reopening of the record to 
address cited evidence not considered and inconsistent formal findings covering SOR 
¶¶ 1.d and 1.e. Formal findings addressing the Board’s cited errors follow. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 56-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security 
clearance. Allegations covered in the SOR and admitted by Applicant are incorporated 
and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow. 
2 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
    
 
        
        
        
          
     
 
     
      
        
      
     
 
 
 
 
       
        
       
       
      
       
      
 
          
           
            
 
 
       
       
   
        
 
 
   
        
            
          
        
       
      
 
 
Background  
Applicant married in September 1996 and has two children from this marriage. 
(Item 2) He attended college classes between May 2003 and March 2016 without 
earning a degree or diploma. Applicant enlisted in his state’ s Army National Guard in 
March 2006 and served 11 years in his Guard unit’s active reserve. (Items 2 and 12) He 
received an honorable discharge in May 2017. (item 2) 
Since June 2019, Applicant has worked for his current employer as a battle staff 
expert. (Item 2) Previously, he worked for other employers in various jobs. He reported 
unemployment between July 2018 and June 2019. Defense Information Systems for 
Security ( DISS) records document Applicant’s holding a sensitive compartmented 
information ( SCI) security clearance eligibility since January 2014. (Item 5) He is 
presently sponsored by his current employer. 
Applicant’s finances  
Tax records document that Applicant did not file his federal and state income tax 
returns, as required, for tax years 2014, 2017-2018, and 2020-2022. While he ultimately 
filed both his federal and state tax returns, he did not file them until years later without 
any documented extensions. (Items 1 -3) Applicant attributed his tax -filing lapses to 
financial hardship and personal anguish associated with his early departure from his 
public employer over a discipline -related three-to-four-week work suspension resulting 
from a sexually inappropriate public comment he made at his workstation. (Items 1-3) 
In a post-FORM submission, Applicant elaborated on how he allowed his federal 
and state tax filings to slip following his last military deployment. (Item 11) Struggling to 
find the means to resolve his tax situation, he claimed to be closer to resolving his tax 
issues with recent tax filings and payments. (Item 11) 
Federal t ax records further document that Applicant is indebted to the Federal 
Government for delinquent taxes in excess of $ 74,000 for the covered tax years in 
issue. (Items 3 -4) Check printouts furnished by Applicant in his post -FORM response 
document his payments to the IRS totaling $ 32,365 in November and December 2024. 
(Items 7-10) 
Applicant provided no evidence , however, of additional tax payments or 
installment payment plans with the IRS , or a timetable for making additional payments 
towards the satisfaction of his remaining taxes owed the Service (i.e., in excess of 
$42,000, with interest continuing to accrue) for the tax years covered by the SOR. With 
credit extended for his latest payments to the IRS, Applicant remains indebted to the 
IRS for federal tax debts exceeding $42,000 with no IRS-approved installment 
agreement or other developed payment plan in place for satisfying his remaining federal 
tax balance. 
3 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
    
          
        
  
     
       
     
    
 
 
       
          
       
    
      
   
 
 
 
       
       
      
        
      
       
         
 
                                                                                                                                                        
 
        
               
         
         
          
         
          
      
 
       
        
    
State tax records document Applicant’s state tax delinquencies totaling $7,559 
for tax years 2014 through 2019 (which he did not address until 2022 or 2023) and state 
tax delinquencies totaling $14,676 for tax years 2020 through 2022, which he did not 
address until February 2024 (just prior to his SOR response). See Item I (attaching state 
tax payments totaling $12,70 0. Documented in his SOR response are his state tax 
payments of $6,200 (covering tax year 2020), $6,500 (covering tax year 2021, and 
$2,500 (covering tax year 2022) that reflect his satisfaction of delinquent state taxes 
(albeit untimely) owed for tax years 2020 through 2022. (Item 1) 
State  tax payments approved  by Applicant’s retained  tax accountant covering   
owed  tax payments totaling  $7,559  for tax  years 2014  and  2016  through  2019  were  
included  in Applicant’s attachments to  his interrogatory responses.   (Item  3) While  not  
explicitly documented   with  payment receipts for   these  tax  years, his   accountant’s  
approval letter is sufficient to credit Applicant with payments owing for these tax years.  
Financial resources available to Applicant to pay off his remaining owed federal 
taxes are not insubstantial . Vehicle registration records from his state of residence 
report multiple vehicles register ed to him. (Item 6) Considered together, they represent 
substantial liquid property interests that he could ostensibly access to accelerate his 
payoffs of his owed federal taxes. Documentation of his liquidating any of his registered 
vehicles to accelerate his payment progress with the IRS is lacking in the record. 
Endorsements 
Applicant is well -regarded by his former commanding officer in the Air National 
Guard who enjoys a developed close personal friendship with Applicant. (Item 1 2) He 
credited Applicant with responsible managing of his unit’s funding streams and 
characterized his former subordinate and friend as an honest, forthright, trustworthy, 
great American “who has served his country for over 30 years in and out of uniform.” 
(Item 1 2) Without any recited knowledge of Applicant’s raised tax issues, his former 
commanding officer closed with a full recommendation of a security clearance approval 
for Applicant. (Item 12) 
Policies  
By virtue of the jurisprudential principles recognized by t he U.S. Supreme Court 
in Department of the Navy v. Egan , 484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988 ), “no one has a ‘right’ to a 
security clearance.” As Commander in Chief, “the President has the authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information. ” Id. at 527. 
Eligibility for access to classified information may only be granted “upon a finding that it 
is clearly consistent with the national interest to do so. ” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior. 
4 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
         
       
      
   
 
      
       
      
     
 
 
        
           
      
     
           
    
 
          
        
          
         
  
             
 
 
       
         
       
       
         
      
      
       
 
 
          
 
 
 
     
      
       
      
     
These guidelines are applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole 
person. An administrative judge ’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial , and 
commonsense decision. An administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The AGs list guidelines to be considered by judges in the decision -making 
process covering DOHA cases. These guideline s take into account factors that could 
create a potential conflict of interest for the individual applicant, as well as 
considerations that could affect the individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified information. 
These guidelines include conditions that could raise a security concern and may 
be disqualifying (disqualifying conditions), if any, and all of the conditions that could 
mitigate security concerns, if any. These guidelines must be con sidered before deciding 
whether or not a security clearance should be granted, continued, or denied. Although, 
the guidelines do not require judges to place exclusive reliance on the enumerated 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in the guidelines in arriving at a decision. 
In addition to the relevant AGs, judges must take into account the pertinent 
considerations for assessing extenuation and mitigation set forth in ¶ 2(a) of the AGs, 
which are intended to assist the judges in reaching a fair and impartial, commonsense 
decision based on a careful consideration of the per tinent guidelines within the context 
of the whole person. The adjudicative process is designed to examine a sufficient period 
of an applicant’s life to enable predictive judgments to be made about whether the 
applicant is an acceptable security risk. 
When evaluating an applicant’s conduct, the relevant guidelines are to be 
considered together with the following ¶ 2(d) factor s: (1) the nature, extent, and 
seriousness of the conduct; (2) the circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include 
knowledgeable participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to which 
participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation and other 
permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation of the conduct; (8) the potential for 
pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the likelihood of continuation or 
recurrence. 
Viewing the issues raised and evidence as a whole, the following individual 
guidelines are pertinent herein: 
Financial Considerations  
The Concern: Failure or inability to live within one’s means, satisfy debts 
and meet financial obligation s may indicate poor self -control, lack of 
judgment, or unwillingness to abide by rules or regulations, all of which 
can raise question s about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness and 
ability to protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can 
5 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
   
                      
also be  caused  or exacerbated  by, and  thus can  be  a  possible  indicator of  
other issues of personnel security concern such  as  excessive  gambling,  
mental health  conditions, substance  misuse, or alcohol abuse  or 
dependence. An  individual who  is financially  overextended  is at greater  
risk of having  to  engage  in illegal acts or otherwise questionable acts to  
generate  funds.  .  .  .   AG ¶  18.   
  Burdens of Proof  
 
         
   
         
      
 
 
        
    
           
            
     
 
 
     
     
         
          
      
          
            
   
    
 
 
          
    
         
  
 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified 
information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation a bout 
potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Clearance 
decisions must be “in terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a 
determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 § 7. 
See also Exec. Or. 12968 (Aug. 2, 1995), § 3.1. 
Initially, the  Government must establish, by  substantial evidence,  conditions in  
the  personal  or professional history of  the  applicant  that  may  disqualify the  applicant  
from  being  eligible  for  access to  classified  information.  The  Government has  the  burden  
of establishing  controverted  facts alleged  in  the  SOR.  See  Egan, 484  U.S. at 531.  
“Substantial evidence”  is “more  than  a  scintilla  but less  than  a  preponderance.”   See  v.  
Washington  Metro. Area  Transit Auth., 36  F.3d  375, 380  (4th  Cir. 1994). The  guidelines  
presume  a  nexus or rational connection  between  proven  conduct under any of the  
criteria  listed  therein and  an  applicant’s  security suitability.  See  ISCR Case  No. 95-0611  
at 2 (App. Bd. May 2, 1996).  
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition by substantial 
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it 
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue his [or her] security 
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01 -20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). The burden of 
disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the Government. See ISCR Case No. 
02-31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, 
if they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; see AG ¶ 2(b).  
Analysis  
Security concerns are raised over Applicant’s failure (a) to timely file his federal 
and state tax returns for tax years 2014, 2017-2018, and 2020 -2022. as required, and 
(b) his accumulation of delinquent federal and state taxes owed the IRS and his state’s 
taxing agency. 
6 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
 
 
 
 
        
        
       
     
           
   
 
          
           
    
        
         
          
       
 
 
      
        
          
          
    
 
      
      
        
         
   
  
 
         
       
Financial concerns  
Applicant’s multiple  federal and  state  tax-filing  lapses for tax years 2014,  2017-
2018, and  2020-2022,  and  owed  taxes for the  tax years in issue, warrant the  application  
of three  of the disqualifying  conditions (DC)  of  the  financial consideration guidelines.  DC  
¶¶  19(a), inability to  satisfy debts”; 19(c), “a history of not meeting  financial obligations”;  
and  19(f), “failure  to  file  or  fraudulently filing  annual Federal,  state,  or local  income  tax  
returns or failure to pay annual Federal, state, or local income tax as required.”  
Applicant’s admitted  tax-filing  failures  and  accumulations of delinquent federal  
and  state  taxes owed  require  no  independent proof to  substantiate  them. See  Directive  
5220.6  at E3.1.1.14; McCormick on  Evidence  §  262  (6th  ed. 2006). H is  admitted  tax-
filing  failures  and  tax  debt  delinquencies  are  fully documented  and  create  judgment  
issues over the  management of h is  finances. See  ISCR  Case  No. 03-01059  (App. Bd.  
Sept. 24, 2004).  
Financial stability in a person cleared to protect classified information is required 
precisely to inspire trust and confidence in the holder of a security clearance that 
entitles the person to access classified information. While the principal concern of a 
security clearance holder’s demonstrated difficulties is vulnerability to coercion and 
influence, judgment and trust concerns are implicit in ca ses involving delinquent tax 
filings and tax debts. 
Historically, the timing of addressing and resolving of an a pplicant’s tax -filing 
failures and accumulated tax debt delinquencies are critical to an assessment of the 
applicant’s trustworthiness, reliability, and good judgment in following rules and 
guidelines necessary for those seeking access to classified information or to holding a 
sensitive position. See ISCR Case No. 14 -06808 at 3 (App. Bd. Nov. 23. 2016) ; ISCR 
Case No. 14 -00221 at 2 -5 (App. Bd. June 29, 2016); ISCR Case No. 14 -05476 at 5 
(App. Bd. Mar. 25, 2016); ISCR Case No. 14-01894 at 5 (App. Bd. Aug. 18, 2015); and 
ISCR Case No. 01-05340 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 5, 2002). 
While Applicant has been able to address and resolve his state tax delinquencies 
for tax years 2014 through 2022, he remains in debt for over $4 2,000 in back taxes 
owed to the IRS for the tax years in issue, Neither his late -filing federal and state tax 
returns for the tax years covered by the SOR nor his IRS payment progress to date are 
sufficient to mitigate the Government’s financial concerns. 
Without documented evidence of Applicant’s timely resolving of his federal and 
state tax-filing failures and his individual federal tax-debt delinquencies with payoffs and 
IRS-approved payment plan s, only limited mitigation credit can be extended to 
Applicant. MC ¶ 20(d), “the individual initiated and is adhering to a food-faith effort to 
repay overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts,” warrants partial application to 
Applicant’s situation. 
In the past, the Appeal Board has imposed evidentiary burdens on applicants to 
provide documentation corroborating actions taken to resolve financial problems, 
7 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
        
             
 
 
          
      
        
    
          
    
          
 
  
 
      
        
         
      
          
  
 
      
        
       
  
 
            
          
       
          
        
 
 
 
 
 
        
            
 
 
 
whether the issues relate to back taxes or other debts and accounts . See ISCR Case 
No. 19-02593 at 4-5 (App. Bd. Oct. 18, 2021); ISCR Case No. 19 -01599 at 3 (App. Bd. 
Jan. 20, 2020). 
Applicant’s late tax filings and expressed commitments to take care of his 
remaining tax debt delinquency issues in the future, while encouraging, lack the needed 
documentation to corroborate his assurances and atone for his past tax -filing and 
payment lapses. Late tax filings, while welcomed, do not meet Appeal Board timeliness 
requirements. And, promises to resolve hi s still outstanding federal and state tax debts 
are not viable substitutes for a track record of timely paying federal taxes owed and 
otherwise acting in a responsible way. See ISCR Case No. 17 -04110 at 4 (App. Bd. 
Sept. 26, 2019). 
Whole-person assessment  
Whole-person assessment of Applicant’s clearance eligibility requires 
consideration of whether his history of tax filing failures and accumulated delinquent 
federal and state taxes are fully compatible with minimum standards for holding a 
security clearance. To be sure, Applicant is entitled to credit for h is military service, his 
work in the defense industry , and his pay offs of his owed state taxes while making 
noted progress in paying down his owed federal taxes. 
Applicant’s efforts to date are not sufficiently substantial at this time, however, to 
overcome his repeated failures or inability to timely file his federal and state income tax 
returns and fully address h is accrued federal tax debts in a timely way . Overall 
trustworthiness, reliability, and good judgment have not been established. 
Based on a consideration of all of the facts and circum stances considered in this 
case, it is too soon to make safe predictions that Applicant will be able to undertake 
documented good-faith efforts to mitigate the Government’s financial concerns within 
the foreseeable future. More time is needed for h im to establish the requisite levels of 
stability with h is finances to establish h is overall eligibility for holding a security 
clearance. 
I have  carefully applied  the  law,  as set forth  in Department  of  Navy v. Egan,  484  
U.S. 518  (1988), Exec. Or. 10865, the  Directive,  and  the  AGs, to  the  facts and  
circumstances in the  context of the  whole person. I  conclude  financial considerations  
security concerns  are  not mitigated. Eligibility for  access  to  classified  information  is 
denied.   
 
 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Guideline  F  (FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS): AGAINST APPLICANT 
8 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
                                      
                                     
                                                                                                                                                       
                                                              
 
            
        
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
__________________________ 
Subparagraphs  1.a-1.c:  Against Applicant 
Subparagraphs  1.d-1.e: For Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance.  Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Roger C. Wesley 
Administrative Judge 
9 