 
 
 
                                                               
                       
 DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS           
           
             
 
    
  
       
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
    
  
 
 
       
         
          
           
    
 
         
     
          
          
          
 
 
 
______________ 
______________ 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 23-02668 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Andrew H. Henderson, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Bradley P. Moss, Esq. 
02/13/2025 
Decision 
LOUGHRAN, Edward W., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant mitigated the security concerns under Guideline F ( financial 
considerations). Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Statement  of the Case  
On December 19, 2023, the Department of Defense (DoD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline F. Applicant 
responded to the SOR on February 1 , 202 4, and requested a hearing before an 
administrative judge . The case was assigned to me on July 25 , 2024 . The hearing 
convened as scheduled on October 23, 2024. 
Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 5 were admitted in evidence without 
objection. GE 6 was admitted over Applicant’s objection. Applicant testified and 
submitted Applicant Exhibits (AE) A through J, which were admitted in evidence without 
objection. The record was held open for App licant to submit additional documentary 
evidence. He submitted a document I have marked as AE K and admitted in evidence 
without objection. 
1 
 
 
 
 
          
           
           
            
   
 
       
       
   
 
        
          
            
          
       
          
          
             
 
 
      
           
           
           
        
        
        
       
   
 
       
       
            
   
         
  
 
       
      
        
 
       
          
           
        
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 39-year-old employee of a defense contractor. She has worked for 
her current employer since February 20 16. She is applying for a security clearance for 
the first time. She earned a bachelor’s degree in accounting in 2009 and a master’s 
degree in finance in 2010. She is married with an eight-year-old child. (Tr. at 13-16, 19, 
44, 46-47; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2) 
The SOR alleges three delinquent debts: two delinquent consumer debts for 
$26,917 and $13,768, and an unpaid $ 603 medical debt . Applicant admitted that she 
owed all the debts. 
Applicant and her husband earn ed a combined income of about $300,000 in 
2019, but her credit card balances were high , so she borrowed $40,000 to consolidate 
her debts under one loan. The $40,000 was divided into two loans and are the two 
defaulted accounts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b. Applicant attributed her issues to 
frequent work travel where her employ er paid for her to travel, but she had to bring her 
infant child with her, which was not covered by her employer. She and her husband also 
took multiple vacations to foreign countries between 2015 and 2020 . She stated that 
most of the costs of those trips were paid through travel points that she earned from h er 
work travel. (Tr. at 18-32, 47-52; GE 2) 
Applicant sought additional help with her finances in 2021 from a debt resolution 
company. She enrolle d four debts totaling about $69,000 i n the compa ny’s debt relief 
program, including the debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b. She agreed to stop paying 
the debts and let them become delinquent. She would deposit $502 to a dedicated 
account each month, starting in October 2021. The company agreed to negotiate 
settlements with her creditors and pay the settlement amounts from the dedicated 
account, minus their fees. In December 2021, the debt resolution company terminated 
the contract because Applicant did not make any of the payments to the dedicated 
account. (Tr. at 28-32; 47-54; AE G) 
Applicant testified that there was a mistake with the account information for 
transfers to the dedicated account. She was extremely busy at work and caring for a 
young child, and she did not notice for an extended period that the deposits were not 
being made. She also had significant medical issues and procedures in 2021, 2022, and 
2023, and she assisted her parents , who had medical problems after an auto accident 
in December 2022. (Tr. at 26-28, 32-35, 52; Applicant’s response to SOR) 
Applicant submitted a Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86) in 
April 2022. Under the financial questions, she reported a $302 medical debt that she 
had paid, but she did not report the SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b debts. (GE 1) 
Applicant was interviewed for her background investigation in July 2022. She did 
not report the SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b debts until she was confronted with them by the 
interviewer. She stated that she had been paying about $900 to the debt resolution 
company since about December 2021. She stated the company consolidated her debt 
2 
 
 
 
 
          
         
         
  
 
              
        
         
        
           
   
 
        
      
  
 
        
               
    
 
      
            
        
     
         
           
              
 
 
         
      
 
 
    
     
       
      
 
 
       
        
       
in one  place.  She  reported  the  status of the  debts when  she  responded  to  DoD  
interrogatories in November 2022. (GE 2, 3)  
Applicant testified that she did not report the debts on the SF 86 and during the 
background interview because she had not realized that the dedicated account was not 
receiving the deposits and the contract had been terminated. She thought the accounts 
were being paid. (Tr. at 32-34, 57-66) 
In 2023, the collection company for the $26,917 debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a sued 
Applicant and her husband. They retained an attorney and settled the lawsuit and debt 
with a stipulation and order of judgment. They agreed to pay $17,750 through 48 
monthly payments of $370, starting in July 2024, and ending in June 2028. They paid 
$1,917 toward the debt on July 3, 2024. They made $370 payments in August and 
September 2024. (Tr. at 36-39, 56-57; AE D, E) 
In August 2024, Applicant settled the $13,768 debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.b for 
$4,130. She documented that the lump -sum payment was completed in August 2024. 
(Tr. at 40-41; AE F) 
Applicant did not recognize the $603 medical debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.c. After 
she received the SOR, s he decided to just pay the debt. She resolved the debt with a 
$603 payment in February 2024. (Tr. at 41; AE H) 
Applicant admitted that she did not handle the family’s finances well. Her 
education, degrees, and job are in accounting and finance , so she knew better, but with 
her job , young child, and other distractions, she did not pay sufficient attention to her 
finances. Her husband is now involved in the family’s finances. Their current combined 
annual income is about $ 550,000. She credibly asserted that she has learned a 
valuable and costly lesson, that she plans to complete the judgment payments, and that 
there will be no additional delinquent debts. (Tr. at 14, 22, 41-46, 64-65, 69-72; GE 1, 2; 
AE I, J) 
Applicant submitted letters attesting to h er strong moral character. The authors 
praised her for her judgment, ethics, dedication, trustworthiness, and integrity. (AE A-C) 
Policies  
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 196 0), as amended; DoD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines (AG ), which became 
effective on June 8, 2017. 
When evaluating an Applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
3 
 
 
 
 
          
    
       
        
          
     
     
 
 
      
    
    
 
        
       
       
      
     
 
           
          
     
             
     
       
         
     
 
 
          
               
        
 
 
 
 
       
 
disqualifying  conditions and  mitigating  conditions, which  are to  be  used  in evaluating  an  
Applicant’s eligibility for access to  classified  information.  
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and common sense decision. According 
to AG ¶ 2(c), the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number o f variables 
known as the “whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all 
available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the Applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, 
or mitigate facts admitted by the Applicant or proven by Department Counsel .” The 
Applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk the Applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation of potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
Applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline F, Financial Considerations  
The security concern for financial considerations is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to  live  within  one’s means, satisfy debts,  and  meet  financial  
obligations may indicate  poor self-control, lack of judgment,  or  
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise  
questions about an  individual’s reliability, trustworthiness,  and  ability to  
4 
 
 
 
 
    
    
 
 
 
 
  
 
      
               
      
       
      
          
   
 
      
   
 
 
 
         
  
 
          
          
          
      
         
       
        
protect  classified  or  sensitive information.  Financial distress can  also be  
caused  or  exacerbated  by, and  thus can  be  a  possible  indicator of,  other  
issues of  personnel security  concern  such  as  excessive gambling, mental  
health  conditions, substance  misuse, or alcohol  abuse  or dependence.  An  
individual who  is financially overextended  is at  greater  risk of having  to  
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to  generate funds.  
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) inability to satisfy debts;  
(b) unwillingness to satisfy debts regardless of the ability to do so;  and  
(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations. 
Applicant has a history of not meeting her financial obligations. AG ¶ 19(c) is 
applicable. This is a somewhat unique case because I do not find that she was unable 
to pay her debts or that she was completely unwilling to satisfy them . I believe she 
always planned to satisfy her debts by settlement through the debt resolution program. 
They went unpaid more from negligence than an intentional act to not pay them. AG ¶ 
19(a) is not applicable. AG ¶ 19(b) has some applicability, because she followed the 
debt resolution company’s advice to stop paying her debts. 
Conditions that could mitigate the financial considerations security concerns are 
provided under AG ¶ 20. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or occurred  
under such  circumstances that it is unlikely to  recur and  does not cast  
doubt on   the  individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good   
judgment;   
(c)  the  individual has received  or is receiving  financial counseling  for the  
problem  from  a  legitimate  and  credible  source,  such  as  a  non-profit  credit  
counseling  service, and  there are clear indications that the  problem  is  
being resolved or is under control;  and  
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good -faith effort to repay 
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts. 
All the SOR debts have been resolved or are in the process of being resolved. 
She paid the $603 medical debt (SOR ¶ 1.c) in February 2024. She settled the $13,768 
debt (SOR ¶ 1.b) for $4,130 in August 2024. She settled the $26,917 debt (SOR ¶ 1.a) 
and lawsuit for $17,750 through 48 monthly payments of $370, starting in July 2024, 
and ending in June 2028. She has paid about $2,650 toward the settlement, but she 
has years of payments left. AG ¶ 20 (d) has minimal applicability because two of the 
debts were settled ( See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 08-12184 at 10 (App. Bd. Jan.7, 2010)), 
5 
 
 
 
 
    
       
          
   
 
      
           
       
          
       
 
  
 
         
  
        
     
 
 
       
       
          
       
 
 
 
      
     
   
and  most  of  her  efforts to  resolve  her debts were  done  after she  received  the  SOR  
(See, e.g.,  ISCR Case  No. 20-02971  at 4 (App. Bd. Jun. 15, 2023).  
Applicant was busy at work and traveling a lot; she was caring for her young child 
and her parents after their car accident ; and she had her own medical issues. However, 
she is an accountant and financial expert. Despite that expertise, she readily admits that 
she let herself down by not paying attention to her finances. 
I believe that Applicant exercised poor judgment in how she handled her 
finances. I also believe that she has learned from the experience, and she has the 
income and wherewithal to prevent it from happening again. Her financial problems are 
being resolved and are unlikely to recur . AG ¶¶ 20 (a) and 20(c) are not perfectly 
applicable, but they are sufficient, in conjunction with the whole -person factors, to 
mitigate the security concerns raised by Applicant’s financial issues. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole -person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
Applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the Applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of  
rehabilitation  and  other permanent  behavioral changes;  (7) the  motivation  
for the  conduct;  (8) the  potential  for pressure, coercion,  exploitation, or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood  of continuation  or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole -person concept. I have incorporated my 
comments under Guideline F in my whole-person analysis. I also considered Applicant’s 
favorable character evidence. 
Appendix C of the  adjudicative guidelines  gives me  the  authority to  grant  
conditional eligibility “despite  the  presence  of  issue  information  that  can  be  partially but  
not completely mitigated, with  the  provision  that additional security  measures shall  be  
required  to  mitigate  the  issue(s).” I have  not done  so  here as I have  concluded  the  
issues are completely mitigated, and  it is unnecessary to   further  monitor Applicant’s   
finances.  
Overall, the r ecord evidence leaves me with out questions or doubts about 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. I conclude Applicant 
mitigated the financial considerations security concerns. 
6 
 
 
 
 
       
   
 
    
 
   
 
 
        
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
________________________ 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  F:  For Applicant 
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.c:  For Applicant 
Conclusion  
It is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a 
security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Edward W. Loughran 
Administrative Judge 
7 