                                                   
 
       
      
 
 
     
       
      
 
     
 
 
 
     
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
           
  
 
          
              
              
        
      
    
    
    
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
\'l,E 
~. ~~~~t1!~t:klit!.,.. 
Ill • o > 
00 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 23-00740 
Appearances  
For Government: John C. Lynch, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
04/02/2025 
Decision 
HALE, Charles C., Administrative Judge: 
This case involves security concerns raised under Guidelines J (Criminal Conduct). 
Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Statement  of  the  Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on July 28, 2022. The 
Department of Defense (DoD) determined that it was unable to find that it was clearly 
consistent with the national interest to grant her access to classified information, and on 
May 12, 2023, it sent her a Statement of Reasons (SOR) alleging security concerns under 
Guidelines J (Criminal Conduct). The DoD acted under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 
10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as 
amended; D oD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance 
Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the adjudicative 
guidelines (AG) promulgated in Security Executive Agent Directive 4, National Security 
Adjudicative Guidelines (December 10, 2016). 
  
            
         
         
          
        
              
       
           
       
         
 
         
        
      
       
  
 
          
     
 
       
       
        
          
         
         
         
         
         
            
         
 
 
    
         
        
                
     
          
         
         
         
 
 
           
          
Applicant answered the SOR on June 6, 2023, and requested a hearing before an 
administrative judge. Department Counsel was ready to proceed on February 29, 2024, 
and the case was assigned to me on September 4, 2024. On September 10, 2024, the 
Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) notified Applicant that the hearing was 
scheduled for December 4 , 2024 . I convened the hearing as scheduled. Government 
Exhibits (GE) 1 through 5 were admitted in evidence without objection. Applicant did not 
submit Applicant’s Exhibits (AE) at the hearing. I kept the record open, and through four 
emails she timely submitted AE A through AE X, consisting of court payments, work 
performance and education, volunteer actions, and her military history, which were 
admitted without objection. DOHA received the transcript (Tr.) on December 12, 2024. 
At the hearing Government counsel moved to amend SOR ¶ 1. b by striking the 
language “You were arrested in about April 16, 2021, in [Z] and charged ” and 
substituting the language “In about September 2021, you were charged in [Z].” 
Applicant did not object to the exception and substitution and was ready to proce ed with 
the hearing. (Tr. 7-8.) 
Findings  of  Fact  
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, she admitted all the allegations. Her admissions 
in her answer and at the hearing are incorporated in my findings of fact. 
Applicant is a 60-year-old program manager employed by a federal contractor in 
support of airport operations . She was hired by her employer in 2013. She worked 
overseas in an area of operations that a military member would receive imminent danger 
pay. She earned her bachelor’s degree in 1994 and master’s degree in 2022. She has 
continued to do training in project management to expand her master’s degree education. 
She was recently promoted to her current position based on her performance over the 
past five years, which does not require a security clearance. She has been married since 
2001. She has four adult children and two grandchildren . She served honorably in the 
Marine Corps from 1988 until 2008 and retired as a Gunnery Sergeant. She held a 
security clearance while on active duty. She earned one Navy and Marine Corps 
Commendation Medal and two Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medals during her 
service. (GE 1; AE A; Tr. 17-18, 20-21, 23, 44, 51, 70-73.) 
Applicant receives veterans’ disability payments from the Veterans Administration 
(VA), based her 90% disability rating by the VA , and military retired pay . Her total 
compensation amount between her VA disability payment and military retired pay is about 
$3,700 a month. Her husband is 100% disabled and has been unable to work since 2014. 
His disability is due to combination of injury and illness. Her husband’s initial injury dates 
back to 2007. He receives a disability payment from the state of $1,500 a month. Between 
her salary, military retired pay, and the disability payments their total income for the past 
year was about $155,000. She filed for bankruptcy in 2000 . In her Answer she cited her 
daughter’s medical conditions and college expenses for her “stupid decision” to shoplift. 
(Tr. 18, 21-22, 43, 51-53.) 
The SOR alleges two criminal prosecutions involving thefts from three locations from 
a hobby and craft store chain between April 2021 and J uly 2021. Applicant listed the 
2 
  
            
          
               
        
               
         
         
      
            
         
           
  
 
           
              
             
          
           
          
           
            
        
 
 
         
        
              
       
        
           
          
             
        
 
 
 
      
        
           
              
      
prosecutions on her SCA. She testified she entered the three stores “15 to 20” times to 
steal the same item, which she then sold at a discount on a social media marketplace. 
The item she was stealing could fit in her purse. She did not enhance her purse to defeat 
any store antitheft detection capabilities. The most she ever took at one time was 10 
items. The value of one item was between $8 and $14. She would sell “10 [items] for $40, 
and some people would try to bargain better” for the items. The stores were all about 30 
to 45 minutes from her home. One of the stores was five minutes from her workplace and 
the other was near where her grandson lived. She never brought her grandson along 
when she was shoplifting. She sold enough product that the social media marketplace 
generated a tax form for $760 for tax year 2022. The hobby and craft store chain’s product 
had its own distinct look, but the product was available at other chains of hobby and craft 
stores. (GE 1; Tr. 24-33, 55-59.) 
Applicant explained that the police officers investigating the thefts alleged in SOR 
¶ 1.a came to her home in August 2021. She had stopped stealing in July 2021. She was 
not home but the officers left a message with her daughter for he r to contact them. 
Applicant contacted the officers and made a full confession. Because her conduct 
occurred during the COVID pandemic, she did not interact with the police officers who 
investigated the SOR ¶ 1. b conduct. Because of her cooperation with the officers 
investigating the thefts alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a, the officers investigating the thefts alleged 
in SOR ¶ 1.b were able to use her video confession . She reported the criminal cases to 
her facility security office (FSO) after she received the court papers. (Answer; GE 2, GE 
3; Tr. 33-35, 71-72, 91.) 
Applicant has not informed her husband of her shoplifting. When she has had to 
deal with court cases and this administrative hearing , it has always been during working 
hours, so she has not felt the need to tell him. Given his physical condition and pain 
medications she does not want to bother him. She acknowledged that her husband’s past 
work in the corrections field was another reason for not disclosing these incidents. She 
denied she was in fear of her safety if she did disclose these incidents to him. She stated 
she does not want a confrontation and an argument with him because she does not want 
to give him an opening for an argument or to judge her . She described him as very 
judgmental, self-centered and selfish. Both her daughters know of her legal situation. (GE 
5; Tr. 35-36, 47, 62-63, 92.) 
Applicant  received  two  years of probation,  with  the  first year supervised,  for the  
thefts  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.a.  She  had  no  probation  violations,  and  the  second  year  was  
waived.  Her probation  terminated  in January 2023. She  also paid $3,600  in restitution  to  
the  hobby  and  craft  store chain.  For the  thefts alleged  in  SOR ¶  1.b,  she  pled  guilty and  
was placed  on  unsupervised  probation  for one  year,  and  she  paid  $2,000  in  restitution.  
Prior to  this shoplifting  scheme,  she  had  no  prior criminal charges. (GE  2, GE  3; Tr.  36-
42, 69.)  
Applicant explained, during the hearing , how her daughter ’s problems eventually 
led her to shoplift. Her youngest daughter suffers from heart conditions and panic attacks, 
which require a service dog, and her daughter has been out of work for a while. The 
daughter was also going back to college, and Applicant was “trying to keep all her college 
bills afloat” as well as her daughter’s housing expenses so that her daughter could go to 
3 
  
       
   
       
  
 
              
            
    
  
 
        
            
              
        
  
  
     
              
 
 
       
          
         
        
 
       
          
           
      
         
       
      
 
       
         
            
        
           
       
    
 
         
    
         
     
        
school. Applicant did not tell her daughter she was struggling to pay her own house 
expenses, her daughter’s education, and her daughter’s housing expenses. Applicant 
stated that “it was personal pressure ” she placed on herself that caused her to shoplift. 
(Answer; GE 5; Tr. 44-47, 50-51, 68.) 
Applicant noted all six of her siblings have been in jail at some time. This fact 
“scares the world out of [her].” She explained she is now in their world and does not like 
it, which is her deterrence. (Tr. 90.) When asked why it is unlikely this conduct would 
reoccur, she responded: 
I don't want to go to jail. I already have a criminal record at this point, I don't 
want to go to jail. I can't do this anymore. I have to cut off. And the last of all 
the bad is out. And it makes no sense to you, but I come from a pretty 
screwed-up family, and I stepped in a pile I created myself when I did this, 
and I don't want to do it again. I mean, I'm not going to do it again. 
Right now, my sister -- my sister is back in jail right now, and I'm not going 
to be with her. I'm not going to do this. I -- it just -- I have to rise above the 
mess. (Tr. 67.) 
Applicant explained her family is important to her . S he is busy helping her 
daughters who gave her grandchildren within 15 months of each other . In addition to 
helping her family , she has participated in various programs to raise awareness and 
support for persons in need. (AE C, AE D; Tr. 65, 74-75.) 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or her designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
decision. An administrative judge must consider all available and reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. T his relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisi ons entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
4 
  
   
 
 
        
                
          
      
  
 
           
             
        
        
       
        
              
           
 
 
 
         
     
       
           
   
 
 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865 
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant 
has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have 
established for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 15 -01253 at 3 
(App. Bd. Apr. 20, 2016). 
Once  the  Government establishes a  disqualifying  condition  by substantial 
evidence, the  burden  shifts to  the  applicant  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or mitigate  the  
facts.  Directive ¶  E3.1.15. An  applicant has  the  burden  of proving  a  mitigating  condition,  
and  the  burden  of  disproving  it never shifts  to  the  Government. See  ISCR  Case  No. 02- 
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005).  
An  applicant  “has  the  ultimate  burden  of  demonstrating  that  it  is  clearly  consistent  
with  the  national  interest  to  grant  or  continue  her  security  clearance.”  ISCR  Case  No.  01- 
20700  at 3  (App. Bd. Dec.  19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance  determinations should  err, if 
they must, on the side  of denials.” Egan, 484  U.S. at 531.  
Analysis  
Guideline  J,  Criminal  Conduct  
The concern under t his guideline is set out in AG ¶ 30: “Criminal activity creates 
doubt about a person's judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness. By its very nature, it 
calls into question a person's ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and 
regulations.” Applicant’s admissions and the evidence presented at the hearing establish 
the following disqualifying conditions under this guideline: 
AG  ¶  31(a):  a  pattern  of  minor  offenses,  any  one  of  which  on  its  own  would 
be  unlikely  to  affect  a  national security eligibility decision,  but which in  
combination  cast doubt on  the  individual's judgment,  reliability,  or 
trustworthiness; and  
AG  ¶  31(b):  evidence  (including,  but  not  limited  to,  a  credible  allegation,  an  
admission,  and  matters  of  official  record)  of  criminal  conduct,  regardless  of  
whether the individual was formally charged,  prosecuted, or convicted.  
5 
  
       
 
 
 
          
        
       
        
        
      
  
 
         
      
            
         
        
     
 
 
 
The following mitigating conditions are potentially relevant: 
AG ¶  32(a): so  much  time  has elapsed  since  the  criminal behavior  
happened, or it happened  under such  unusual circumstances, that it is 
unlikely to  recur and  does  not  cast  doubt on  the  individual's reliability,  
trustworthiness, or good judgment; and  
AG  ¶  32(d):  there  is  evidence  of  successful  rehabilitation;  including,  but  not  
limited  to,  the  passage  of time  without  recurrence  of  criminal  activity, 
restitution,  compliance  with  the  terms  of  parole  or probation, job  training  or  
higher education, good  employment record,  or constructive  community  
involvement.  
AG ¶ 32(a) is established for SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b. Applicant’s misconduct and 
arrests occurred in 2021 . Sufficient time has ela psed since her criminal behavior. She 
has no desire to follow the path of her siblings’ history of criminal misconduct. Given her 
other siblings criminal histories she is focused on not getting into further legal troubles. I 
conclude that the instances of misconduct alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1. a and 1.b are mitigated 
by the passage of time and further criminal conduct is unlikely to recur and does not cast 
doubt her current reliability, trustworthiness, or judgment. 
AG ¶ 32(d) is established for SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b. Sufficient time has passed to 
establish evidence of successful rehabilitation. There has been no recurrence of criminal 
activity. Applicant made restitution, complied with the terms of her probation for both 
convictions, and had the second year of probation waived for her first criminal conviction. 
She has continued her work education, maintained a good employment record , and 
demonstrated constructive community involvement. Applicant successfully mitigated the 
criminal conduct security concerns. 
Whole-Person  Concept  
Under AG ¶  2(c), the  ultimate  determination  of whether to  grant eligibility for a  
security clearance  must be  an  overall  commonsense  judgment based  upon  careful 
consideration  of the  guidelines  and  the  whole-person  concept.  In  applying  the  whole- 
person  concept,  an  administrative  judge  must evaluate  an  applicant’s eligibility for a   
security clearance  by considering  the  totality of the  applicant’s conduct and  all  relevant  
circumstances. An  administrative judge  should consider the  nine  adjudicative  process  
factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d):  
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is  voluntary;  (6)  the  presence  or  absence  of  rehabilitation  
and  other  permanent  behavioral  changes;  (7)  the  motivation  for  the  conduct;   
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.  
6 
  
 
 
            
 
                                                      
                                                          
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
I have  incorporated  my  comments under Guideline  J in my whole-person  analysis.  
Some  of the  factors in  AG ¶  2(d) were  addressed  under those  guidelines, but some  
warrant additional comment. I  have  considered  that  Applicant  served  honorably in  the  
U.S.  Marine  Corps. I  have  considered  her  family situation  and  her  choice to  not discuss  
this matter with  her husband. Given  her willingness to  disclose  to  her other family  
members,  and  looking  at the  whole person  evidence,  I am  confident that her current  
decision  to  not  disclose  to  her  husband  could not  be  used  to  compromise  her.  After  
weighing  the  disqualifying  and  mitigating  conditions under Guidelines  J and  evaluating  all  
the  evidence  in the  context of the  whole person, I conclude  Applicant has mitigated  the  
security  concerns  raised  by  her  criminal  conduct.  
Formal  Findings  
I make the following formal findings on the allegations in the SOR: 
  Paragraph 1, Guideline J:           
      Subparagraphs 1.a-1.b:       
FOR APPLICANT 
For Applicant 
Conclusion  
Considering all of the circumstances, it is clearly consistent with the national 
interest to grant Applicant a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified 
information is granted. 
Charles C. Hale 
Administrative Judge 
7 