 
 
  
  
 
 
  
      
         
           
             
 
   
  
           
   
    
 
 
 
 
    
    
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
         
        
       
 
 
 
          
    
       
       
         
    
   
   
  
       
  
 
_________ 
_________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 23-01001 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Aubrey M. De Angelis, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Todd A. Hull, Esq. 
04/01/2025 
Decision 
TUIDER, Robert, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to mitigate security concerns arising under Guidelines K (handling 
protected information ) and M ( use of information technology) ; however, Guideline E 
(personal conduct) security concerns are mitigated as a duplication of the Guideline s K 
and M security concerns. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On June 15, 2022, Applicant completed and signed an Electronic Questionnaires 
for Investigations Processing or security clearance application (SCA). (Government 
Exhibit (GE) 1) On September 8, 2023, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security 
Agency Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA) issued a statement of reasons 
(SOR) to Applicant. (Hearing Exhibit (HE) 2) This action was taken under Executive Order 
(Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry , February 20, 
1960; DOD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
Program (Directive), January 2, 1992; and Security Executive Agent Directive 4, 
establishing in Appendix A the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining 
Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sens itive Position 
(AGs), effective June 8, 2017. 
 
 
                                         
 
        
         
     
       
  
 
     
         
         
  
 
     
      
        
      
          
  
   
 
 
 
 
     
            
         
         
     
        
            
           
     
 
 
 
         
       
      
        
  
The SOR detailed reasons why the DCSA notified Applicant that it intended to deny 
or revoke his security clearance because it did not find that it is clearly consistent with the 
interests of national security to grant or continue a security clearance for him. Specifically, 
the SOR set forth security concerns arising under Guideline s K, M, and E. (Hearing 
Exhibit (HE) 2) On November 8, 2023, Applicant responded to the SOR. (HE 3) 
On February 8, 2024, Department Counsel was ready to proceed. On February 
20, 2024, the case was assigned to me. On March 1, 2024, DOHA issued a notice of 
hearing, scheduling the hearing for April 5, 2024. (HE 1) Applicant’s hearing was held as 
scheduled. 
At his hearing, Department Counsel offered three exhibits, and Applicant offered 
five exhibits. (Tr. 16-17; GE 1-3; Applicant Exhibit (AE) A-AE E) All proffered exhibits were 
admitted into evidence without objection. (Tr. 16,18) The record was held open after the 
hearing until April 12, 2024. (Tr. 90-91) On April 8, 2024, Applicant provided one post -
hearing exhibit. (AE F) All proffered exhibits were admitted into evidence without 
objection. (Tr. 16,18; AE F) On April 19, 2024, DOHA received a transcript of Applicant’s 
security clearance hearing. 
Some  details were   excluded  to  protect Applicant’s right to  privacy. Specific   
information is available in the cited exhibits and transcript.  
Findings of Fact  
Applicant admitted  the  factual support for the  allegations  in SOR ¶¶  1.a, 2.a, and  
3.a. (HE  3) He denied  that the  facts established  a  disqualifying  security concern. He  
provided clarifications,  extenuating,  and mitigating information.  (HE  3)   
Applicant is a 64-year-old senior communications systems engineer who has been 
employed by the current DOD contractor since June of 2022. (Tr. 36-37, 45) He graduated 
from high school in 1978. (Tr. 37 -38) In 1984, he received a bachelor’s degree with a 
major in electrical engineering from a university, and in 1990, he received a master’s 
degree in electrical engineering. (Tr. 39 -40) DOD contractors have employed him since 
1992. (Tr. 47 , 64, 76) In 1996, he married, and his son is 17 years old. (Tr. 40 -41) His 
spouse has worked for a U.S. Government agency since 2001. (Tr. 43) He did not serve 
in the U.S. military. (Tr. 44) He seeks a security clearance to enhance his position and 
responsibilities with his current employer. (Tr. 45, 62) His resume provides further details 
about his professional background and experience. (AE A) 
Handling protected  information, use  of  information technology,  and  personal  
conduct  
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges a handling protected information security concern. In July 2018, 
Applicant connected his personal thumb drive to a DOD contractor’s Intranet in violation 
of the DOD contractor’s policy. Over a two-day period, he downloaded U.S. Government-
owned data classified as Export Controlled Information/For Official Use Only to his thumb 
drive. The data included software code for a program on which he had been working. By 
2 
 
 
                                         
 
      
   
 
              
 
 
           
     
            
    
 
    
          
            
      
          
           
           
             
          
       
          
         
            
   
 
 
        
        
            
            
  
 
        
         
        
    
    
   
            
          
             
       
       
      
           
downloading this information, he violated the program’s non-disclosure agreement, which 
he had signed. The DOD contractor determined that he is not eligible for rehire. 
SOR ¶¶ 2.a and 3.a cross allege the information in SOR ¶ 1.a as use of information 
technology and personal conduct security concerns, respectively. 
Applicant worked for the DOD contractor from 2016 to July 2018 as a 
communications systems engineer. (Tr. 49, 64) He received an outstanding performance 
review in July of 2018. (Tr. 49; AE B) He held a security clearance when he used a thumb 
drive to access the DOD contractor’s Intranet. (Tr. 50) 
Applicant did considerable work on codes for his employer. (Tr. 53) One project he 
worked on for the DOD contractor , starting in 2017 , was called Z. (Tr. 65) Applicant 
worked on Z full time for one year, and he spent all of his time coding and researching. 
(Tr. 65, 69) He received excellent comments from a supervisor for his work on the Z team. 
(AE B) He wanted to change employment and move to a different state. (Tr. 52) Many 
other contractor employees worked on Z too; however, only three or four people worked 
on Z in the open area . (Tr. 66) He realized he could not remember the data and codes, 
and he decided to keep a copy of them. (Tr. 53) He downloaded the material after he 
submitted a resignation letter to his employer. (Tr. 54, 76, 78) He already had an offer of 
employment from another DOD contractor. (Tr. 58) The contractor said the download of 
the Z program could have compromised two years of work; however, Applicant said he 
believed it may be only one year of work. (Tr. 69) The contractor said the download 
contained the code “for the entire end to end simulation of the system.” (Tr. 70) Applicant 
acknowledged he made a mistake when he downloaded the codes onto his thumb drive. 
(Tr. 53) 
Applicant signed a nondisclosure agreement; however, he did not remember 
whether it discussed using thumb drives. (Tr. 66 -67) He understood that he was not 
allowed to use a personal thumb drive to store information at work. (Tr. 67) A company 
thumb drive can be used to transport or store information when an employee is traveling. 
(Tr. 68) 
Applicant said the data he downloaded was based on commercially available 
papers. (Tr. 54) He downloaded the information in an open area and not in a sensitive 
compartmented information facility (SCIF). (Tr. 56) The information he downloaded was 
unclassified. (Tr. 54) He downloaded Power Point briefings, details of algorithms, and 
papers implementing algorithms and codes. (Tr. 68) He suggested the documents might 
have been marked, “For Official Use Only (FOUO)”; however, he did not specifically 
remember the markings on the documents. (Tr. 69) He did not realize the information was 
proprietary. (Tr. 55) He downloaded the information on a weekend to enable him to 
reference the information in the future. (Tr. 55 , 77) He said he was foolish to think the 
information was not proprietary. (Tr. 56) He brought the thumb drive home, and he did 
not think he put the thumb drive into a computer at home. (Tr. 72) He was very remorseful 
about what he had done. (Tr. 56, 63) He said he did not share the information contained 
on the thumb drive. (Tr. 56) He provided the thumb drive to his employer when the security 
3 
 
 
                                         
 
       
 
 
         
           
      
      
        
 
 
         
          
             
            
    
 
 
     
            
      
         
    
 
   
      
       
   
   
 
      
       
 
    
  
       
       
         
      
        
       
       
        
  
 
infraction was investigated. (Tr. 57) He cooperated with the investigation of the security 
infraction. (Tr. 57)   
Applicant received extensive security training over the years from various DOD 
contractors. (Tr. 58) He said he was advised not to download classified information onto 
a personal thumb drive. (Tr. 59) He did not have incidents before July 2018 in which he 
mishandled or improperly downloaded information. (Tr. 59) He promised not to commit 
the error in judgment in the future. (Tr. 59 -60) He believes he is ready to regain access 
to classified information. (Tr. 61) 
Around 2019, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) agents interviewed him many 
times. (Tr. 75) After about 2019, the FBI did not contact him. (Tr. 75) He denied that he 
was engaging in espionage, and he stated he lacked an intention to harm his employer. 
(Tr. 77) There is no evidence anyone paid Applicant to steal the proprietary information 
from his employer. 
Character Evidence  
Applicant’s friend and coworker has known Applicant for 19 years . (Tr. 20, 24) 
Another friend and coworker has known him for 17 years. (AE D) The general sense of 
their statements is that Applicant is diligent, trustworthy, reliable, and professional. (Tr. 
20-23; AE D) He is loyal to the U.S. Government. (Tr. 20-23; AE D) He has good judgment 
and is an asset to the government. (Tr. 23-24) 
Applicant’s supervisor from 2020 to 2022 described him as intelligent, competent, 
reliable, professional, trustworthy, and conscientious about protection of classified 
information. (Tr. 27-32; AE D ) The SOR allegation is inconsistent with the behavior his 
supervisor observed. (Tr. 33) He recommended reinstatement of Applicant’s security 
clearance. (Tr. 34-35) 
Applicant’s performance evaluations indicate he met or exceeded expectations. 
(Tr. 46, 48; AE E; AE F) In 2023, he received a 2023 Team Achievement Award from his 
employer. (Tr. 46-47; AE C) 
Policies  
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion of the Executive 
Branch in regulating access to information pertaining to national security emphasizing, 
“no one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 
518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual 
is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The President 
has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicant’s eligibility for 
access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly consistent with the 
national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865. 
4 
 
 
                                         
 
       
        
      
           
      
      
    
 
         
   
         
     
     
       
           
        
           
    
       
   
 
   
   
        
        
       
       
      
            
            
  
 
 
  
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with an e valuation of the whole person. An administrative judge ’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation 
about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Clearance 
decisions must be “in terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a 
determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 § 7. 
Thus, nothing in this decision should be construed to suggest that it is based, in whole or 
in part, on any express or implied determination about applicant ’s allegiance, loyalty, or 
patriotism. It is merely an indication the applicant has not met the strict guidelines the 
President, Secretary of Defense, and DNI have established for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). “The Directive 
presumes there is a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of 
the Guidelines and an applicant’s security eligibility. Direct or objective evidence of nexus 
is not required.” ISCR Case No. 18-02581 at 4 (App. Bd. Jan. 14, 2020) (citing ISCR Case 
No. 15-08385 at 4 (App. Bd. May 23, 2018)). 
Once  the  Government establishes a  disqualifying  condition  by substantial 
evidence, the  burden  shifts to  the  applicant  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or mitigate  the  
facts.  Directive ¶  E3.1.15.  An  applicant “has the  ultimate  burden  of demonstrating  that  it  
is clearly consistent  with  the  national interest to  grant or continue  his [or her] security  
clearance.” ISCR   Case  No.  01-20700  at 3  (App. Bd. Dec.  19, 2002). The  burden  of  
disproving  a  mitigating  condition  never shifts to  the  Government.  See  ISCR  Case  No.  02-
31154  at 5  (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance  determinations should  err, if 
they must, on the side  of denials.” Egan, 484  U.S. at 531; see  AG ¶  2(b).  
5 
 
 
                                         
 
 
 
 
    
 
     
       
      
    
  
 
    
 
       
       
       
   
     
      
     
         
   
 
        
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis 
Handling Protected Information  and Use  of Information Technology   
AG ¶ 33 describes the handling protected information security concern: 
Deliberate or negligent failure to comply with rules and regulations for 
handling protected information-which includes classified and other sensitive 
government information, and proprietary information-raises doubt about an 
individual’s trustworthiness, judgment, reliability, or willingness and ability 
to safeguard such information, and is a serious security concern. 
AG ¶ 39 describes the use of information technology security concern: 
Failure to comply with rules, procedures, guidelines, or regulations 
pertaining to information technology systems may raise security concerns 
about an individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, calling into question the 
willingness or ability to properly protect sensitive systems, networks, and 
information. Information Technology includes any computer-based, mobile, 
or wireless device used to create, store, access, process, manipulate, 
protect, or move information. This includes any component, whether 
integrated into a larger system or not, such as hardware, software, or 
firmware, used to enable or facilitate these operations. 
AG ¶ 34 describes the security concern for handling protected information security 
concerns as follows: 
(a) deliberate  or negligent disclosure  of protected  information  to  
unauthorized  persons,  including, but not limited  to, personal or business  
contacts,  the  media,  or persons  present  at  seminars,  meetings,  or  
conferences;  
(b) collecting  or storing protected information in any unauthorized location;  
(c)  loading, drafting, editing, modifying, storing, transmitting, or otherwise  
handling  protected  information, including  images, on  any unauthorized  
equipment or medium;  
(d) inappropriate  efforts to  obtain  or view protected  information  outside  
one's need to  know;  
(e) copying  or modifying  protected  information  in an  unauthorized  manner  
designed  to  conceal or remove  classification  or other document  control  
markings;  
(f)  viewing  or downloading  information  from  a  secure system  when  the  
information is  beyond the individual’s need-to-know;  
6 
 
 
                                         
 
 
 
 
      
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
       
 
 
(g) any failure to  comply with  rules for the  protection  of classified  or sensitive  
information;  
(h) negligence  or  lax security practices that  persist despite  counseling  by  
management;  and  
(i) failure to  comply with  rules or regulations that results in damage  to  the  
national  security, regardless of whether it was deliberate  or negligent.  
AG ¶ 40 lists conditions that could raise a use of information technology security 
concern and may be disqualifying as follows: 
(a)  unauthorized entry into any information technology system;  
(b) unauthorized  modification, destruction, or manipulation  of,  or denial of  
access to, an  information technology system  or any data in such  a system;  
(c)  use  of any information  technology system  to  gain unauthorized  access  
to another  system  or to a compartmented  area within the same system;  
(d) downloading, storing, or  transmitting  classified, sensitive, proprietary, or  
other  protected  information  on  or  to  any unauthorized  information  
technology system;  
(e) unauthorized use of any information technology system;  
(f)  introduction, removal, or duplication  of hardware, firmware, software, or  
media  to  or  from  any information  technology  system  when  prohibited  by  
rules, procedures,  guidelines, or regulations or when  otherwise not  
authorized;  
(g) negligence  or lax security practices in handling  information  technology  
that persists  despite counseling by management;  and  
(h) any misuse  of information  technology, whether  deliberate  or negligent,  
that results in  damage  to the national security.  
The record establishes AG ¶¶ 34(b), 34(c), 34(g), 40(d), 40(e), and 40(f). Additional 
discussion is in the mitigation section, infra. 
AG ¶ 35 lists conditions that could mitigate handling protected information security 
concerns: 
(a) so  much  time  has elapsed  since  the  behavior, or it has happened  so  
infrequently or  under such  unusual circumstances, that it is unlikely to  recur  
and  does not cast  doubt on  the  individual's current reliability, 
trustworthiness, or good judgment;  
7 
 
 
                                         
 
 
 
 
 
        
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
         
        
       
(b) the  individual responded  favorably to  counseling  or remedial security  
training  and  now  demonstrates a  positive  attitude  toward  the  discharge  of  
security responsibilities;  
(c)  the  security violations were  due  to  improper or inadequate  training  or  
unclear  instructions; and  
(d) the  violation  was inadvertent,  it was promptly reported, there  is no  
evidence of  compromise, and it does not suggest a pattern.  
AG ¶ 41 lists conditions that could mitigate use of information technology security 
concerns as follows: 
(a) so  much  time  has elapsed  since  the  behavior happened, or it happened  
under such  unusual circumstances, that it is unlikely to  recur and  does not  
cast doubt on the  individual's reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;  
(b) the  misuse  was minor and  done  solely in  the  interest of organizational 
efficiency and  effectiveness;  
(c)  the  conduct was unintentional or inadvertent and  was followed  by a  
prompt,  good  faith  effort to  correct  the  situation  and  by notification  to  
appropriate  personnel; and  
(d) the  misuse  was  due  to  improper or inadequate  training  or unclear  
instructions.  
In  ISCR  Case  No.  10-04641  at 4  (App. Bd. Sept.  24, 2013),  the  DOHA  Appeal  
Board explained  Applicant’s responsibility for proving  the  applicability of mitigating  
conditions as follows:  
Once  a  concern arises regarding   an  Applicant’s  security  clearance  
eligibility,  there is a  strong  presumption  against the  grant or maintenance  of  
a  security clearance. See  Dorfmont  v.  Brown, 913  F.  2d  1399,  1401  (9th  
Cir. 1990), cert.  denied,  499  U.S.  905  (1991).  After the  Government  
presents  evidence  raising  security concerns, the  burden  shifts  to  the  
applicant to rebut or mitigate those concerns. See  Directive ¶ E3.1.15. The  
standard applicable in  security clearance  decisions is that articulated  in  
Egan, supra. “Any  doubt concerning  personnel being  considered  for  access  
to  classified  information  will  be  resolved  in  favor of  the  national security.” 
Directive, Enclosure 2  ¶ 2(b).  
None of the mitigating conditions are fully established. In July 2018, Applicant 
connected his personal thumb drive to a DOD contractor’s Intranet in violation of the DOD 
contractor’s policy. During a weekend, he downloaded contractor-owned data relating to 
project Z, classified as Export Controlled Information/For Official Use Only, to his personal 
8 
 
 
                                         
 
            
         
     
 
 
 
 
         
      
     
       
        
         
         
 
 
     
 
 
      
  
 
 
thumb drive. The data included software code on which he had been working extensively 
for one year . By downloading this information, he indicated an intent to violate the 
program’s non -disclosure agreement, which he had signed. The DOD contractor 
determined that he is not eligible for rehire. 
Applicant was in the  process of changing  employment and  moving  to  a  different  
state.  In  addition  to  Applicant, two or three  other employees worked  on  Z in  the  open  
area. Applicant downloaded  the  material after he  submitted  a  resignation  letter to  his  
employer. He already had  an  offer of employment from  another  DOD contractor. The  
download  of the  Z program could  have  compromised  about  one  year of work  on  project  
Z. The  contractor  said  the  download  contained  the  code  “for the  entire end  to  end  
simulation of the system.” (Tr. 70)  
Applicant did not provide a credible non self-serving reason for downloading 
valuable information f rom his employer’s internet. Poor judgment is shown when he 
downloaded proprietary information shortly before leaving employment. Applicant might 
violate employer’s rules if he decides it is personally advantageous for him to do so. His 
decision to download the proprietary information casts doubt on his reliability, 
trustworthiness, and judgment. Handling protected information and use of information 
technology security concerns are not mitigated. 
Personal Conduct  
AG ¶ 15 describes the personal conduct security concern as follows: 
Conduct involving  questionable judgment, lack of candor,  dishonesty,  or  
unwillingness to  comply with  rules and  regulations can  raise  questions  
about an  individual’s reliability, trustworthiness and   ability to   protect  
classified  information. Of  special interest  is any failure  to  provide  truthful  
and  candid answers during  the  security clearance  process or any  other 
failure to cooperate with the security clearance process.  . . .  
AG ¶ 16 lists personal conduct disqualifying conditions that are potentially relevant 
in this case as follows: 
(c)  credible  adverse information  in several adjudicative issue  areas  that is  
not sufficient  for an  adverse determination  under any other single guideline,  
but which, when  considered  as a  whole, supports a  whole-person  
assessment  of  questionable  judgment,  untrustworthiness,  unreliability, lack  
of candor, unwillingness to  comply  with  rules and  regulations,  or other 
characteristics indicating  that  the  individual  may  not properly  safeguard  
classified or sensitive information;  
(d) credible  adverse information  that is not  explicitly covered  under any  
other guideline  and  may  not  be  sufficient by itself for an  adverse  
determination, but which, when  combined  with  all  available  information,  
supports a  whole-person  assessment of  questionable judgment,  
9 
 
 
                                         
 
  
     
    
  
 
     (1) untrustworthy or unreliable behavior  to  include  breach  of  client  
confidentiality,  release  of proprietary information, unauthorized  release  of  
sensitive corporate or government protected information;  
     (2) any disruptive, violent,  or other inappropriate behavior;  
 
     (3) a pattern of dishonesty or rule violations; and  
 
     (4)  evidence  of  significant  misuse  of  Government  or  other employer's    
time  or  resources;  and  
 
 
      
                  
        
   
           
     
 
   
 
       
         
        
         
        
        
 
 
untrustworthiness, unreliability, lack of candor, unwillingness to comply with 
rules and regulations, or other characteristics indicating that the individual 
may not properly safeguard classified or sensitive information. This 
includes, but is not limited to, consideration of: 
(e) personal conduct,  or concealment of  information  about  one's conduct,  
that creates a  vulnerability to  exploitation, manipulation, or duress by a  
foreign  intelligence  entity or  other  individual or group.  Such  conduct  
includes:  (1) engaging  in  activities which, if known,  could affect the  person's  
personal,  professional, or community standing.  
None of the personal conduct disqualifying conditions apply. The allegation in SOR 
¶ 1.a was cross alleged in SOR ¶ 3.a. The conduct in SOR ¶ 3.a is addressed under the 
handling protected information and use of information technology guidelines. Essentially 
this allegation is a duplication. His conduct under the two guidelines is disqualifying. The 
FBI and security officials are aware of the conduct in SOR ¶ 3.a, and he is not a vulnerable 
to exploitation, manipulation, or duress by a foreign intelligence entity or other individual 
or group. Personal conduct security concerns are refuted. 
Whole-Person Analysis  
In all adjudications, the protection of our national security is the paramount 
concern. A careful weighing of several variables in considering the whole-person concept 
is required, including the totality of his or her acts, omissions, and motivations. Each case 
is decided on its own merits, taking into consideration all relevant circumstances, and 
applying sound judgment, mature thinking, and careful analysis. Under the whole-person 
concept, the administrative judge should consider the nine adjudicative pro cess factors 
listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  
and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct;  
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.  
10 
 
 
                                         
 
       
        
     
             
 
   
    
            
          
      
    
   
 
     
       
              
     
      
    
      
    
 
 
     
  
 
         
        
        
      
          
    
 
       
           
      
         
    
   
 
 
   
  
     
 
     
Under AG ¶ 2(c), “[t]he ultimate determination” of whether to grant a security 
clearance “must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines” and the whole-person concept. My comments under Guidelines K, M, 
and E are incorporated in my whole -person analysis. Some of the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) 
were addressed under those guidelines but some warrant additional comment. 
Applicant is a 64-year-old senior communications systems engineer who has been 
employed by the current DOD contractor since June of 2022. In 1984, he received a 
bachelor’s degree with a major in electrical engineering from a university, and in 1990, he 
received a master’s degree in electrical engineering. DOD contractors have employed 
him since 1992. His resume provides further details about his professional background 
and experience. 
The general sense of two friends and coworkers’ statements is that Applicant is 
diligent, trustworthy, reliable, and professional. He is loyal to the U.S. Government, has 
good judgment, and is an asset to the government. His supervisor from 2020 to 2022 
described him as intelligent, competent, reliable, professional, trustworthy, and 
conscientious about protection of classified information. The SOR allegation is 
inconsistent with the behavior his supervisor observed. He recommended reinstatement 
of Applicant’s security clearance. Applicant’s performance evaluations indicate he met or 
exceeded expectations. In 2023, he received a 2023 Team Achievement Award from his 
employer. 
The reasons for denial of his security clearance are more persuasive. Those 
reasons are discussed in the analysis for Guidelines K and M, supra. 
It is well settled that once a concern arises regarding an applicant ’s security 
clearance eligibility, there is a strong presumption against grant ing a security clearance. 
See Dorfmont, 913 F. 2d at 1401. “[A] favorable clearance decision means that the record 
discloses no basis for doubt about an applicant’s eligibility for access to classified 
information.” ISCR Case No. 18 -02085 at 7 (App. Bd. Jan. 3, 2020) (citing ISCR Case 
No. 12-00270 at 3 (App. Bd. Jan. 17, 2014)). 
I have carefully applied the law, as set forth in Egan, Exec. Or. 10865, the Directive, 
the AGs, and the Appeal Board’s jurisprudence to the facts and circumstances in the 
context of the whole person. Guideline E (personal conduct) security concerns are 
mitigated; however, Guidelines K (handling protected information) and M ( use of 
information technology) security concerns are not mitigated. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  K:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  1.a:  Against Applicant 
11 
 
 
                                         
 
     
 
     
 
     
    
 
 
         
         
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
______________________ 
Paragraph  2, Guideline  M:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  2.a:  Against Applicant 
Paragraph  3, Guideline  E:   FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  3.a:  Against Applicant 
Conclusion  
Considering all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant or continue Applicant’s 
eligibility for access to classified information. Eligibility for access to classified information 
is denied. 
Robert Tuider 
Administrative Judge 
12 