                                                              
 
                                                               
                                                                                                                    
          
           
             
 
 
 
   
  
                  
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
  
 
 
  
 
        
      
       
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
-------------- ) ISCR Case No. 23-02808 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: 
John Renehan, Esquire 
Aubrey De Angelis, Esquire 
Department Counsel 
For Applicant: 
Carl Marrone, Esquire 
National Security Law Firm 
03/03/2025 
Decision 
ROSS, Wilford H., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant mitigated the security concerns under Guidelines H (Drug Involvement 
and Substance Misuse), and J (Criminal Conduct). 
Statement of the Case 
On January 12, 2024, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guidelines H and J. The 
action was taken under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information 
1 
 
 
 
     
    
       
 
 
         
         
           
         
          
     
        
        
         
      
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
          
 
 
         
           
        
          
       
        
  
            
 
 
within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 5220.6, Defense 
Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended 
(Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) implemented by the DOD on June 8, 
2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR in writing (Answer) on January 24 , 2024 , and 
requested a hearing before an administrative judge. Department Counsel was prepared 
to proceed on May 14 , 2024. The case was assigned to me on May 21, 2024. The 
Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a Notice of Hearing on May 30, 
2024. I convened the hearing as scheduled on July 25, 2024. The Government submitted 
Government Exhibits 1 through 3, which were admitted without objection. Applicant 
testified on her own behalf, called four additional witnesses, and submitted Applicant 
Exhibits A through T. H er exhibits were also admitted without objection. Applicant 
requested that the record remain open for receipt of additional documentation. No 
additional documentation was submitted . DOHA received the transcript of the hearing 
(Tr.) on August 5, 2024. The record closed on August 16, 2024 
Findings of Fact 
Applicant is 30  years old and  single. She  has a  master’s degree  in mechanical 
engineering. She  has been  employed  by a  defense  contractor since  2020  and  seeks to  
obtain  national security eligibility and  a  security clearance  in connection  with  her  
employment.  This is her first application  for a  finding  of  national security eligibility.  
(Government  Exhibit  1  at Sections  12, 13A, and 17;  Applicant Exhibit K;  Tr. 24-26, 68-
69.)  
Paragraph 1 (Guideline H, Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse)  
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance 
because she has used illegal drugs. She admitted all the allegations under this paragraph 
with explanations. 
Applicant was involved in a serious automobile collision in April 2017 that resulted 
in severe injuries to her head and neck that required surgery in December 2017. Pictures 
of Applicant’s injuries can be found in her Answer at page 7. The driver of the car , “T,” 
was her boyfriend at the time . He was a drug user and provided her with several of the 
illegal drugs discussed below in attempts to help her relieve the pain from the accident 
and subsequent surgery. After breaking up with “T” she took up with “S.” He was also a 
drug user and continued to supply her with several illegal substances. She subsequently 
broke up with him. She has had no involvement with either man since 2022. (Tr. 27-37, 
46-49.) 
2 
 
 
 
       
        
  
 
          
          
      
  
 
 
 
          
      
  
 
              
        
          
           
           
          
  
 
       
      
   
 
           
      
              
             
       
            
        
  
Applicant admitted that she knew her employer had a drug -free workplace 
requirement. She stated that she never used illegal drugs at work or reported to work 
under the influence. (Government Exhibit 3; Tr. Tr. 72-73.) 
Applicant moved across the country in 202 3 to start a different job with the same 
company. The move allowed her to change her friendships and begin a healthier lifestyle. 
As further described below, she has not used any illegal drugs since December 2022. (Tr. 
50.) 
1.a.  Applicant admitted  that she  used  marijuana  from  approximately March 2016  
through  December 2022. She credibly stated  that she  had  no  future intentions of using  
marijuana.  Her use  of  marijuana  after  her neck surgery was  part of an  unsuccessful  
attempt  to  resolve  intense  pain. She  no  longer uses  any  drugs  to  relieve  her continual  
neck pain. Her current  boyfriend, who  holds a  security clearance,  does not use  drugs.  
She  realizes the  negative impact continued  marijuana  use  can  have  on  her  life.  (Tr. 37-
44, 82-83.)  
1.b. Applicant admitted that she purchased marijuana on various occasions from 
about March 2016 until November 2020 . She has no future intentions of purchasing 
marijuana or any other illegal drug. (Tr. 39-41.) 
1.c. Applicant admitted that she used cocaine on an occasional basis from about 
March 2016 until November 2019, and again from November 2021 to about March 2022. 
Her use of cocaine after her neck surgery was part of an unsuccessful attempt to resolve 
continuous neck pain and associated features of the accident. She stopped using cocaine 
in March 2022 and credibly stated that she had no future intentions of using the drug. Her 
current boyfriend, who holds a security clearance, does not use drugs. She realizes the 
negative impact continued cocaine use can have on her life. (Tr. 45-49, 51-52, 85-86.) 
1.d. Applicant admitted that she purchased cocaine on various occasions from 
about March 2016 until November 2020. She has no future intentions of purchasing 
cocaine or any other illegal drug. (Tr. 46.) 
1.e. Applicant admitted that she used Xanax that was not prescribed for her on an 
occasional basis from about November 2017 to early 2018, and again from May 2022 to 
about October 2022. She took the drug to help with stress and anxiety. She stopped using 
Xanax in October 2022 and credibly stated that she had no future intentions of using 
Xanax. Her current boyfriend, who holds a security clearance, does not use drugs. She 
realizes the negative impact continued Xanax use without a prescription can have on her 
life. She has found alternative ways to resolve stress and anxiety that do not include 
drugs. (Tr. 52-54, 89-91.) 
3 
 
 
 
        
          
    
 
     
       
     
         
      
       
       
     
 
       
        
    
 
       
         
      
        
    
 
          
           
  
 
        
              
  
 
            
        
       
           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.f. Applicant admitted that she purchased Xanax without a prescription, at least 
one time, during the period from about March 2016 until October 2022. She has no future 
intentions of purchasing Xanax or any other illegal drug in the future. (Tr. 53.) 
1.g. Applicant admitted that she used Percocet that was not prescribed for her on 
an occasional basis from about November 2017 to about September 2022. Her use of 
Percocet after her automobile accident and subsequent neck surgery was part of an 
unsuccessful attempt to resolve intense pain. She no longer uses any drugs to relieve her 
continual neck pain. She stopped using Percocet in September 2022 and credibly stated 
that she had no future intentions of using Percocet. Her current boyfriend, who holds a 
security clearance, does not use drugs. She realizes the negative impact continued 
Percocet use can have on her life. (Tr. 54-59, 91-93.) 
1.h. Applicant admitted that she purchased Percocet without a prescription on 
various occasions from about March 2016 until November 2020. She has no future 
intentions of purchasing Percocet or any other illegal drug in the future. (Tr. 58-59.) 
1.i. Applicant admitted that she used MDMA (also known as molly or ecstasy) 
twice, in October 2021 and May 2022. She credibly stated that she had no future 
intentions of using MDMA in the future. Her current boyfriend, who holds a security 
clearance, does not use drugs. She realizes the negative impact continued MDMA use 
can have on her life. (Tr. 59-61, 93-94.) 
1.j. Applicant admitted that she purchased MDMA on two occasions in October 
2021 and May 2022. She has no future intentions of purchasing MDMA or any other illegal 
drug. (Tr. 59-61.) 
Applicant had a drug abuse assessment in March 2024. The evaluator found, 
“[Applicant] does not, and did not, meet criteria for a substance use disorder.” She also 
took two negative drug tests in March and July 2024. (Applicant Exhibits E, F, and T.) 
Applicant stated that she has lived a drug-free lifestyle since her last usage in 2022. 
She no longer has any contact with “T” or “S.” She loves her job, wants to concentrate on 
her career, and has found drug-free ways to resolve her chronic pain issues, as well as 
her problem with stress and anxiety. She also began seeing a therapist starting in March 
2024 to discuss her issues. (Applicant Exhibit G; Tr. 43, 61-65, 97-100.) 
Paragraph 2 (Guideline J, Criminal Conduct) 
4 
 
 
 
 
      
      
   
       
  
 
 
    
      
     
 
 
      
         
          
            
 
      
             
     
   
 
      
           
           
 
 
 
 
      
        
   
        
   
 
 
 
           
      
         
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance 
because she has engaged in criminal conduct that creates doubt about a person’s 
judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness. Specifically, that the allegations set forth under 
Paragraph 1, above, are cognizable under this paragraph as well. She admitted this 
allegation with explanations. 
Mitigation  
Applicant has worked at her current job since 2020. Her evaluations show a n 
energetic and talented young engineer who is view ed favorably by her managers. She 
received a monetary award in recognition of her hard work in March 2024. (Applicant 
Exhibits I and J.) 
Letters of recommendation were submitted by several of Applicant’s coworkers. 
The writer of Applicant Exhibit M also testified for Applicant. They all state that Applicant 
is trustworthy and believable. They find h er to be a hard-working person of integrity and 
recommend her for a position of trust. (Applicant Exhibits L, M, N, O, and R; Tr. 120-126.) 
Applicant’s current boyfriend, a clearance holder who works for another company, 
testified on her behalf. He described in detail how she currently handles her pain in a 
holistic manner. He also testified that he has confidence in her as a fellow clearance 
holder to continue to abstain from illegal substances. (Tr. 110-119.) 
Two personal friends of Applicant also testified on her behalf. They both knew her 
during the period she was going out with “T.” The witnesses agreed that he was not a 
good person. They recommend her for a position of trust. (Applicant Exhibits P and Q; Tr. 
81-84, 101-109, 127-137.) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for national security eligibility, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines (AG) list 
potentially disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in 
evaluating an applicant’s national security eligibility. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
5 
 
 
 
       
   
       
            
 
 
      
     
         
       
       
 
 
 
 
           
       
    
         
     
  
       
     
      
          
             
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. The entire 
process is a conscientious scrutiny of applicable guidelines in the context of a number of 
variables known as the whole -person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires, “Any doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. I have not drawn inferences based on mere speculation or 
conjecture. 
Directive ¶  E3.1.14, requires the  Government to  present evidence  to  establish  
controverted  facts  alleged  in the  SOR. Under Directive ¶  E3.1.15, “The  applicant is   
responsible  for presenting  witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or  
mitigate  facts admitted  by the  applicant or proven  by Department Counsel, and  has the  
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining  a favorable clearance  decision.”  
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants national 
security eligibility. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk the 
applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or safeguard classifi ed 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as 
to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified or sensitive information. 
Finally, as emphasized in Section 7 of Executive Order 10865, “Any determination under 
this order adverse to an applicant shall be a determination in terms of the national interest 
and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” 
See also Executive Order 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information.) 
Analysis  
Paragraph 1 (Guideline H, Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse) 
6 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
        
 
 
 
 
      
   
   
 
           
             
          
      
 
     
 
 
 
 
    
      
   
 
 
 
The security concern relating to Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse is set 
forth in AG ¶ 24: 
The  illegal use  of controlled  substances,  to  include  the  misuse  of  
prescription  and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances 
that  cause  physical or mental impairment  or are  used  in a  manner  
inconsistent with  their  intended  purpose  can  raise  questions about an  
individual’s reliability and  trustworthiness, both  because  such  behavior may  
lead  to  physical or psychological impairment and  because  it raises  
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules,  
and  regulations. Controlled  substance  means  any “controlled  substance” as  
defined  in  21  U.S.C.  §802.  Substance  misuse  is the  generic term  adopted  
in this guideline to describe any of the  behaviors listed above.  
I have examined the disqualifying conditions under AG ¶ 25 and especially 
considered the following: 
(a) any substance  misuse (see above  definition);  and  
(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation, 
processing, manufacture, purchase, sale, or distribution, or possession of 
drug paraphernalia. 
Applicant used marijuana and cocaine from 2016 to 2022. She used Xanax and 
Percocet that were not prescribed for her from 2017 to 2022. She used MDMA on two 
occasions in October 2021 and March 2022. She also occasionally purchased all of the 
above drugs. Both of the stated disqualifying conditions have application to this case. 
The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 26 have also been considered: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or happened  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur or does  not cast  doubt  
on  the  individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  judgment;  and  
(b) the individual acknowledges his or her drug involvement and substance 
misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and 
has established a pattern of abstinence, including, but not limited to: 
(1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts; 
7 
 
 
 
 
        
    
   
 
 
        
            
       
         
         
        
      
        
       
 
 
 
         
   
 
 
         
 
 
 
        
      
 
(2) changing  or avoiding  the  environment  where drugs  were  used; 
and  
(3) providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug 
involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future 
involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation of national security 
eligibility. 
Applicant used a variety of drugs for several years . She was not a habitual user, 
and did not meet the criteria for a substance use disorder. Some of her drug use, 
particularly marijuana and Percocet, was related to severe and chronic pain that she 
suffered from after an accident . In 202 3 she moved across the country for a new job. 
Once there she found a new boyfriend, new non -drug using friends, and found holistic, 
non-drug ways to handle her pain. She has submitted a signed statement of intent. Her 
very credible testimony, along with the additional testimony of co -workers and friends, 
and the documentary evidence show that she has progressed beyond drug use. The 
adverse inference of her drug use has been overcome. Security concerns under 
Guideline H are mitigated. 
Paragraph 2 (Guideline J, Criminal Conduct)  
The security concerns relating to the guideline for criminal conduct are set out in 
AG ¶ 30, which states: 
Criminal activity creates doubt about a  person’s judgment,  reliability, and  
trustworthiness. By its very nature, it calls into  question  a  person’s ability or 
willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations.  
AG ¶ 31 describes two conditions that could raise security concerns and may be 
disqualifying in this case: 
(a) a  pattern of minor offenses, any one  of  which  on  its own  would be  
unlikely to  affect  a  national security  eligibility decision,  but which in  
combination  cast  doubt  on  the  individual’s judgment,   reliability,  or  
trustworthiness;  and  
(b) evidence  (including, but not limited  to, a  credible  allegation, an  
admission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of  
whether the individual was formally charged,  prosecuted, or convicted.  
Applicant used and purchased all of the illegal drugs described under paragraph 
1, above. Both of the disqualifying conditions have application to the facts of this case. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
     
       
    
 
 
       
            
     
          
     
 
 
 
        
   
      
   
 
         
      
      
        
      
     
   
  
 
        
          
     
 
The  guideline  includes  four conditions in  AG ¶  32  that could  mitigate  the  security  
concerns arising  from  Applicant’s alleged  criminal conduct.  Two  have  possible  application  
to the facts of this case:  
(a) so  much  time  has elapsed  since  the  criminal behavior  happened, or it  
happened  under such  unusual circumstances, that it  is unlikely to  recur and  
does  not cast doubt on  the  individual's  reliability, trustworthiness,  or good  
judgment; and  
(d) there is evidence of successful rehabilitation; including, but not limited 
to, the passage of time without recurrence of criminal activity, restitution, 
compliance with the terms of parole or probation, job training or higher 
education, good employment record, or constructive community 
involvement. 
Applicant’s evidence shows that both of the mitigating conditions have been met. 
Her last involvement with illegal drugs occurred over a year before the record closed. She 
has an outstanding employment record, as shown by her documentary evidence and the 
testimony of work companions. She no longer associates with people who engage in 
illegal conduct. Mitigating conditions ¶ 32(a) and (d) are fully established. Security 
concerns under Guideline J are mitigated. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole -person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for national security eligibility by considering the totality of the 
applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should 
consider the nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant national security 
eligibility for a security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon 
careful consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
9 
 
 
 
       
    
        
     
        
          
   
 
 
 
        
    
 
     
 
    
 
      
 
      
 
  
 
 
      
     
       
                                                  
 
 
 
 
 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
pertinent facts and circumstances surrounding this case. Applicant has fully mitigated the 
security concerns of her prior drug use and the associated criminal conduct. As stated 
elsewhere in this decision, and supported by the evidence, Applicant is a talented and 
successful young engineer who has learned from her mistakes and has moved forward 
with her life without drugs . Her conduct has earned h er the privilege of being g ranted 
national security eligibility. Paragraphs 1 and 2 are found for Applicant. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by ¶ E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  H:  FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 1.a  through  1.j:  For Applicant 
Paragraph  2, Guideline J:  FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  2.a:  For Applicant 
Conclusion 
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to grant or continue Applicant’s national security 
eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
WILFORD H. ROSS 
Administrative Judge 
10 