 
 
 
 
 
                                                              
                             
          
           
             
 
 
     
         
      
    
   
 
 
 
 
  
      
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
        
      
 
 
 
      
           
        
      
     
    
     
   
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 23-01462 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: George A. Hawkins, Esq., Department Counsel, 
Andrea M. Corrales, Esq., Deputy Chief Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Richard J.R. Raleigh, Jr., Esq., Virginia L. Gibson, Esq. 
01/21/2025 
Decision 
OLMOS, Bryan J., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to mitigate the security concerns under Guideline H (Drug 
Involvement and Substance Misuse ). Eligibility for access to classified information is 
denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on February 1, 2023. 
On August 15, 2023, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of Reasons 
(SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline H. The DOD issued the 
SOR under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information 
within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 5220.6, Defense 
Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended 
(Directive); and the Security Executive Agent Directive 4 (SEAD 4), National Security 
Adjudicative Guidelines (AG), effective June 8, 2017. 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
        
        
          
         
       
         
   
 
 
         
         
          
  
 
            
          
       
          
 
 
      
          
            
       
   
 
        
        
         
       
          
       
        
   
 
          
           
      
      
     
  
 
             
           
Applicant answered the SOR on October 11, 2023 (Answer) and requested a 
hearing before an administrative judge from the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals 
(DOHA). The hearing convened as scheduled on October 29, 2024. Department Counsel 
offered into evidence Government Exhibits (GX) 1 -2. Applicant testified and offered into 
evidence Applicant Exhibits (AX) A -C. All exhibits were admitted without objection. Five 
additional witnesses testified on behalf of Applicant, and the record closed. DOHA 
received the hearing transcript (Tr.) on November 5, 2024. 
Findings of Fact  
In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted SOR allegations ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b. He 
denied SOR allegation ¶ 1.c and provided supporting documents and explanations. His 
admissions are incorporated into my findings of fact. After a thorough review of the 
pleadings and evidence submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact. 
Applicant is 34 years old. He attended some college from about 2010 into 2012 , 
when he realized the program was not right for him. He returned home and managed a 
paper route for another two years before enrolling in a technical school in 2014. He 
completed that program in 2016 and began working with composites a nd carbon fiber 
manufacturing. (GX 1-2; Tr. 112-120) 
Applicant was able to maintain consistent employment and a decent income with 
this work. However, he grew tired of the long hours and high living expenses. In 2019, he 
sold his home and moved with his girlfriend to a cabin off the grid. He described the 
experience as rewarding. However, in 2021, his girlfriend was ready to move out of the 
cabin, and they agreed it was time for a change. (GX 1; Tr. 115-130) 
During a family vacation in August 2021, Applicant’s cousin, Mr. K offered 
Applicant a job with his company that focuses on robotic solutions for various defense 
contractors. Mr. K was a part -owner of the company and had previously tried to recruit 
Applicant right out of high school in 2010. This time, Applicant accepted the offer, 
relocated, and began working with the company in October 2021. Although he started 
with basic responsibilities within the company, he was quickly able to apply his technical 
skills to the work and is now a highly valued employee. The company continues to 
sponsor Applicant, and this is his first security application. (GX 1-2; AX C; Tr. 115-125) 
Applicant began purchasing and using marijuana in 2010, when he was about 19 
years old and in college. His marijuana use gradu ally increased to daily by 2013 and 
remained at that level until he relocated to work with his cousin’s company in October 
2021. He further admitted that, while he occasionally purchased from dispensaries, most 
of his marijuana purchases came from friends or from individuals that could be 
characterized as drug dealers. (GX 1-2; Tr. 135-156) 
As part of their discussion regarding a position with the company in 2021, Applicant 
acknowledged that Mr. K told him he needed to stop using marijuana . He also 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
           
            
         
   
 
            
        
      
 
       
         
               
         
      
 
        
        
       
 
      
        
         
       
           
         
   
 
          
      
        
       
   
 
      
       
       
         
        
   
 
       
         
          
         
       
acknowledged that he knew at the time that the company was a drug-free workplace and 
that marijuana use was illegal at the federal level. Nonetheless, he continued to use 
marijuana after relocating and starting with the company . He described that the move 
prompted him to begin reducing his marijuana use. (GX 2; Tr. 130-156) 
In his February 2023 SCA, Applicant disclosed that he started using marijuana in 
2010 and that his use was ongoing. He further disclosed his intent to continue to purchase 
and use marijuana as a way to relieve stress and anxiety. (GX 1) 
During his April 2023 background interview with a DOD investigator, Applicant 
stated that his use of marijuana had decreased from daily to every other weekend. He 
disclosed that he last used marijuana in March 2023 and planned on continuing to use 
marijuana once per quarter to relieve stress and anxiety. He also stated that he was 
unsure about stopping his marijuana use in order to hold a security clearance. (GX 2) 
In his August 2023 response to interrogatories, Applicant confirmed that he had 
not used marijuana since March 2023. He had also changed his perspective and stated 
that he no longer intended to use marijuana in the future. (GX 2) 
During his testimony, Applicant was candid about his drug use history. He admitted 
that, after he relocated to work for the company, he was unsure about quitting his use of 
marijuana. He explained that marijuana had become a stress relief and assisted in 
managing his anxiety. However, as his responsibilities and expertise in the company 
increased, he became more invested in his career and recognized the importance of 
holding a security clearance . After his marijuana use in March 2023, h e decided it was 
time to quit. (Tr. 133-156) 
In an effort to establish that he had not used marijuana since March 2023, 
Applicant submitted negative drug tests from September 2023, March 2024 and 
September 2024. He also submitted a statement of intent to abstain from all future drug 
involvement while acknowledging that any future involvement may result in the revocation 
of his security clearance. (AX A-B) 
Applicant further stated that he had successfully managed increased 
responsibilities within the company , including the management of client proprietary 
information. He also found alternative ways to manage his stress and anxiety including 
increased exercise and social engagement. He believed that he had shown he was a 
responsible and trustworthy individual and was fully capable of maintain ing a security 
clearance. (Tr. 147-158) 
Mr. K, Applicant’s cousin and part-owner of the company, testified on Applicant ’s 
behalf. He has held a security clearance for over twenty -five years and described the 
company as a drug-free workplace. He testified that he recruited Applicant to his company 
in 2021 while knowing that Applicant used marijuana. He recalled telling Applicant to 
“knock it off” before Applicant started with the company. (Tr. 50) However, even after 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
            
           
          
        
     
        
          
   
 
      
       
      
         
               
       
         
             
         
  
 
 
    
        
       
          
      
  
 
 
          
           
        
 
 
knowing that Applicant continued to use marijuana into 2023, Mr. K described Applicant 
as a very successful and valued member of the work team. He stated that Applicant 
successfully managed stress in the workplace, was a problem solver , and was highly 
trusted with “absolutely anything and everything.” (Tr. 39) He never saw Applicant 
impacted by drugs in the workplace. He described Applicant as candid about his past and 
believed he was committed to no longer using marijuana. He believed that Applicant had 
matured and possessed the judgment, reliability and trustworthiness necessary to hold a 
security clearance. (Tr. 31-58) 
Four additional witnesses testified on Applicant’s behalf. Mr. B testified that he had 
known Applicant for over two years both in and out of the workplace. He never saw 
Applicant use marijuana or ever be impacted by drugs. He testified that Applicant handled 
stress well and had a strong sense of doing the right thing. Similarly, Mr. C. testified that 
he had been with the company since 2005 and had known Applicant since he started in 
2021. He believed Applicant was a good worker with whom it was easy to communicate 
and that he was very responsible. He never saw Applicant impacted by drugs. Both Mr. 
B and Mr. C believed that Applicant was committed to not using marijuana in the future 
and had the judgment, reliability , and trustworthiness necessary to hold a security 
clearance. (Tr. 16-28, 59-72) 
Mr. P  had  been  with  the  company  since  2008  and  was  Applicant’s  first supervisor.  
He testified  that Applicant was diligent,  paid attention  to  details,  and  was always willing  
to  tackle  projects  outside  of his job  description. He stated  that  Applicant handled  stress  
well and  was exceptional at protecting  company and  client proprietary information. He  
had  not been  aware  of the   extent  of  Applicant’s history of marijuana   use  prior to  the  
hearing, but still  believed  that  Applicant  was trustworthy and  exercised  good  judgment.  
Mr. R was  also  a  former supervisor of  Applicant.  He  further  testified  that Applicant  
“exemplifies” trustworthiness.   Both  Mr. P   and  Mr.  R testified   that Applicant   had  the  
judgment,  reliability,  and  trustworthiness necessary to  hold a  security clearance.  (Tr. 73-
110)  
Applicant also submitted several character-reference letters, including letters from 
those individuals who testified on his behalf. These letters were consistent with the 
individuals’ testimonies in asserting their belief that Applicant was responsible and 
capable of maintaining a security clearance. An additional letter from Mr. S, a work 
colleague, also stated his belief that Applicant possessed the awareness and 
responsibility necessary to maintain a security clearance. (AX C) 
Policies  
It is well established that no one has a right to a security clearance. As the 
Supreme Court held in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent standard 
indicates that security determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” 484 
U.S. 518, 531 (1988) 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
       
        
      
          
   
 
          
      
         
         
     
       
         
 
 
       
    
          
       
          
  
 
        
       
       
          
     
 
          
       
    
              
      
       
          
   
 
 
 
         
 
 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative g uidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are use d in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables kno wn as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and un favorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical , and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. Likewise, I have not drawn inferences grounded on mere 
speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Analysis  
Guideline H, Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse  
The security concern relating to the guideline for financial considerations is set out 
in AG ¶ 24: 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
    
 
 
 
        
  
 
           
          
  
 
          
  
 
 
 
 
 
        
    
The  illegal use  of controlled  substances,  to  include  the  misuse  of  
prescription  and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances 
that  cause  physical or mental impairment  or are  used  in a  manner  
inconsistent with  their  intended  purpose  can  raise  questions about an  
individual's reliability and  trustworthiness, both  because  such  behavior may  
lead  to  physical or psychological impairment and  because  it raises  
questions about  a  person's ability or  willingness to  comply  with  laws,  rules,  
and  regulations. Controlled  substance  means  any "controlled  substance"  as  
defined  in 21  U.S.C. 802. Substance  misuse  is the  generic term  adopted  in  
this guideline  to  describe any of the behaviors listed above.  
The adjudicative guideline notes several conditions that could raise security 
concerns under AG ¶ 25. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a)  any substance  misuse  (see above  definition);  
(c)  illegal possession  of a  controlled  substance, including  cultivation,  
processing, manufacture purchase,  sale,  or distribution; or possession  of  
drug paraphernalia; and  
(g) expressed intent to continue drug involvement and substance misuse, 
or failure to clearly and convincingly commit to discontinue such misuse. 
Applicant admitted to purchasing and using marijuana from 2010 through March 
2023. In his February 2023 SCA, he stated his intent to continue using marijuana. All of 
the above disqualifying conditions apply. 
Conditions that could mitigate the drug involvement and substance misuse security 
concerns are provided under AG ¶ 26. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or happened  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur or does  not cast  doubt  
on  the  individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  judgment;  and  
(b) the  individual acknowledges his or her drug  involvement and  substance  
misuse,  provides evidence  of actions taken  to  overcome  this problem, and  
has established  a pattern of abstinence, including, but not limited  to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts;  
(2) changing  or avoiding  the  environment  where drugs  were  used; 
and  
(3) providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug 
involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
       
          
            
        
      
           
      
       
  
 
          
         
          
         
        
          
      
 
 
             
         
   
 
 
 
involvement or misuse  is grounds for revocation  of national security  
eligibility.  
Applicant is credited with disclosing his marijuana use in his February 2023 SCA 
and during his April 2023 background interview with a DOD investigator. He described 
how his attitude toward marijuana changed as his role in the company grew and he began 
to focus more on his career. He submitted a statement of intent to no longer use marijuana 
and appeared earnest in his commitment to remain drug free. This is supported by 
multiple negative drug tests. He has also found other means, besides marijuana, to 
relieve his stress and anxiety. He never showed himself to be inhibited in any way at the 
workplace and is a highly valued member of his company. He has the support of his 
colleagues and supervisors. Mitigation under both AG ¶¶ 26 (a) and 26(b) must be 
considered. 
In contrast, Applicant used marijuana from 2010 through March 2023. This use 
was nearly daily from 2013 into 2021. He also continued to use marijuana after being told 
to stop by his cousin in 2021 and for nearly a year and a half while working for the 
company. In that time, he knew that the workplace was drug free, and, eventually, that he 
would be considered for a security clearance. He also knew that marijuana was illegal. 
Yet, he stated his intent to continue using marijuana in February 2023, used marijuana in 
March 2023 and waivered about his future marijuana use during his April 2023 interview 
with a DOD investigator. 
Given the extent of Applicant’s marijuana use both before and during his time with 
the company, insufficient time has passed to establish that his marijuana use is entirely 
in his past. None of the mitigating conditions fully apply. 
Whole-Person Concept  
 
 Under the  whole-person  concept,  the  administrative judge  must  evaluate  an  
applicant’s eligibility for a  security clearance  by considering  the  totality of the  applicant’s  
conduct and  all  relevant circumstances.  The  administrative  judge  should  consider the  
nine  adjudicative  process factors listed at AG  ¶ 2(d):  
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  
and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct;  
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.  
7 
 
 
 
 
 
      
       
     
 
        
 
   
 
   
        
       
     
        
     
 
 
        
      
 
   
 
   
 
 
             
      
 
 
 
 
  
 
_____________________________ 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guideline H in my whole-person analysis. 
At hearing, Applicant was candid and forthcoming about his history of marijuana 
use. As he has advanced within his company and matured, he has grown more serious 
about his career and taken the requirements of holding a security clearance more 
seriously. Nonetheless, more time is necessary for him to fully establish that his extensive 
marijuana use is entirely in his past. At this time, t he record evidence leaves me with 
questions and doubts as to his eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  H:  AGAINST APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a-1.c:  Against  Applicant  
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances, it is not clearly consistent with the national 
interest to grant Applicant a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified 
information is denied. 
Bryan J. Olmos 
Administrative Judge 
8 