 
                                   
                         DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE                         
       DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS  
                                
  
           
             
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
       
  
 
 
      
        
       
      
   
       
       
       
 
          
 
______________ 
______________ 
In the  matter of:  )  
 )  
 [Name Redacted]   )   ISCR Case No. 23-02709  
  )  
Applicant for Security Clearance  )  
Appearances  
For Government: Lauren Shure, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
03/18/2025 
Decision  
HOGAN, Erin C., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant mitigated the security concerns raised under Guideline E, Personal 
Conduct. Applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Statement of the Case  
On December 21, 2023 , the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
Consolidated Adjudication Services (CAS) issued Applicant a Statement of Reasons 
(SOR) detailing security concerns under Guideline E, Personal Conduct. The CAS issued 
the SOR under Executive Order 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive); and Security Executive Agent Directive (SEAD) 4, 
National Security Adjudicative Guidelines (AG) effective within the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR on January 4, 2024. He requested a hearing before 
a Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) administrative judge. On February 1, 
 
 
 
       
         
      
         
           
         
  
 
 
         
         
 
 
          
        
      
   
 
 
       
         
           
            
              
        
    
          
               
 
 
              
        
          
    
        
      
       
          
  
           
         
     
2024, the Government was ready to proceed to hearing. On September 3, 2024, the case 
was assigned to me. On November 5, 2024, DOHA issued a notice scheduling a hearing 
for January 7, 2025 . The hearing proceeded as scheduled. The Government proffered 
three exhibits, which I admitted as Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 3 without 
objection. Applicant testified and offered two exhibits, which I admitted as Applicant 
Exhibits A and B without objection. DOHA received the hearing transcript (Tr.) on January 
17, 2025 and the record closed on that date. 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted all of the SOR allegations. After a 
thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits, I make the following findings 
of fact. 
Applicant is a 38 -year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been 
employed with them since August 2023. This is his first time applying for a security 
clearance. His highest level of education is high school. He has no military experience. 
He is married and has a 12-year-old son and a 24-year-old stepdaughter. (Tr. 15-17, 31; 
GE 1) 
The SOR alleges that Applicant falsified material facts on an Electronic 
Questionnaire for Investigations Processing that h e completed on June 8, 2023. In 
response to Section 13A – Employment Activities , he answered, “no” to the following 
questions, “For this employment have any of the following happened to you in the last 
seven (7) years? Fired – Quit after being told you would be fired – Left a job by mutual 
agreement following charges or allegations of misconduct – Left a job by mutual 
agreement of unsatisfactory performance.” He deliberately failed to disclose that he was 
terminated from his employment with Company A in May 2020 for misuse of a company 
fuel card. (SOR ¶ 1.a: GE 1 at 12; GE 2; GE 3). The fact that he was terminated from 
Company A was cross-alleged in SOR ¶ 1.b. (GE 3) 
Applicant was employed as a driver with Company A from July 2017 to May 2020. 
Company A gives each driver a company fuel card for them to use to purchase gas for 
the vehicles that they use while on the job. Applicant worked for Company A for several 
years. He asked for a raise and was denied. He decided to use the company fuel card to 
purchase gas for his personal vehicle. He estimates that he began to use the company 
fuel card for his personal use during the last year of his employment with Company A. He 
used the company fuel card for his personal use for a couple months . Company A 
discovered this was happening and called him into the office and immediately terminated 
him on May 28, 2020. (Tr. 19-21; GE 3) 
On the day he was terminated, Company A had him sign a document indicating 
that he acknowledged he misappropriated the use of his company fuel card in the sum of 
$1,620. It is not clear how Company A determined this was the amount Applicant owed 
2 
 
 
 
 
       
      
          
        
                
 
 
        
       
      
           
           
            
     
        
          
 
 
         
   
 
 
           
         
            
     
            
          
          
     
 
them. In  the  statement, Applicant  agreed  to  repay  the  $1,620  plus  an  administrative  fee  
of $380 for a total amount  of  $2,000.  Company A  withheld his paychecks for the  last  two  
weeks that  he  worked  which  totaled  $871.51  and  he  had  a  balance  due  of  $1,128.29. 
Company A  indicated  in  the  statement that the  remaining  balance  was due  on  June  11,  
2020, and  if  he  did  not pay the  amount in full  by that date, charges  would be  filed  against  
him  for misappropriation  of corporate  money. He also acknowledged  that  he  forfeited  any  
compensation  for unused  vacation  time. It appears that  Company A  realized  that  the  
Applicant could not pay the  debt in  full  and  agreed  to  a  payment schedule.  Applicant  
made  payments  to  Company A  until the  debt was paid in  full  on  September 25, 2020. (GE  
3)   
Applicant worked for another employer between his termination from Company A 
and his current job. He left this job for a better opportunity with his current employer. He 
admits that when he completed the June 2023 security clearance application that he 
withheld his termination from Company A. He withheld the information because he 
thought it would make him look bad and he did not want it to have a negative impact on 
his new job. (Tr. 17-18; Answer to SOR) 
On September 13, 2023, he was interviewed by an authorized investigator 
conducting his security clearance background investigation. During the interview, the 
investigator confronted him about the fact that he was terminated by Company A. He 
admitted that he intentionally kept the fact that he was terminated off the security 
clearance application because he did not want to be judged negatively and knew it would 
make him look bad. He then told the investigator the details which led to his termination 
from Company A, i.e. using the company gas card to pay for gas for his personal car. He 
mentioned that he repaid Company A in full for the amount of gas that he purchased for 
his personal use. He told the investigator that he learned his lesson from being 
terminated. (GE 2) 
During the hearing, Applicant testified that he learned from this experience. He has 
changed and intends to be completely honest about everything moving forward. (Tr. 30) 
Whole-person Factors  
Ms. T.H. wrote a letter attesting to Applicant’s good character. She worked with 
him in 2019 during a community stage play at a local church and has kept in touch with 
him from time to time. She recommended him for his current position because he has 
consistently demonstrated qualities of honesty, respectfulness, and self -awareness. He 
is always the first to arrive and the last to leave. He is always willing to help others. 
Understanding the importance of holding a security clearance and the responsibility it 
entails, she would not have spoken highly of him to the supervisor if she believed his 
character was questionable. Ms. T.H. trusts Applicant with her children and grandchildren. 
He has shown honesty, kindness, and the qualities of a true friend. (AE A) 
3 
 
 
 
 
     
    
   
      
        
       
          
          
   
 
    
        
          
         
        
       
    
  
 
         
       
      
 
 
        
      
         
        
     
       
         
        
      
         
            
        
 
 
       
      
       
Mrs. O.C. has known Applicant for over five years in a personal and professional 
capacity. Applicant serves as a guest speaker at course she facilitates entitled “Workforce 
Readiness.” The course is for individuals pursuing careers in construction, energy , 
telecommunications, road work, and water for the local government. She has 
professionals from all walks of life speak to the attendees about their personal growth and 
professional challenges. Applicant is among those speakers. He speaks with such 
conviction, honesty and passion about his life experiences, both good and bad, that there 
has been an overwhelming demand for him to return to share his insights with future 
classes. She appreciates his time and commitment to help others. (AE B) 
Mrs. O.C. describes Applicant as “a devoted husband, parishioner, community 
advocate for youth, and dedicated employee.” She was surprised to learn that he provided 
inaccurate information on his job application. She does not believe this reflects his 
character. He has expressed sincere remorse for his actions and taken steps to rectify 
the situation. Despite this mistake, she believes that he is capable of making a valuable 
contribution. He has learned from this experience and has become a more responsible 
and trustworthy individual. (AE B) 
Policies  
It is well established that no one has a right to a security clearance. As the 
Supreme Court has held, “the clearly consistent standard indicates that security 
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy 
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988). 
The adjudicative guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 
2(b) requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for access to 
classified information will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this 
decision, I have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on 
the evidence contained in the record. Likewise, I have avoided drawing inferences 
grounded on mere speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
4 
 
 
 
 
          
       
    
              
      
     
         
 
 
 
 
    
 
    
      
    
      
    
  
 
          
  
 
 
 
           
     
       
mitigate  facts admitted  by applicant or proven  by Department Counsel, and  has the  
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining  a favorable security decision.”  
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
that an applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Analysis  
Guideline E:  Personal Conduct  
AG ¶ 15 expresses the security concern for personal conduct: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. O f special interest is any failure to 
cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes. . . . 
AG ¶ 16 describes condition s that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying. The following disqualifying condition applies: 
(a) deliberate  omission, concealment,  or falsification  of relevant facts from  
any personnel  security questionnaire, personal history statement,  or similar  
form  used  to  conduct investigations,  determine  employment qualifications,  
award  benefits or status, determine  national security eligibility or 
trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities; and  
(e) personal conduct,  or concealment of information  about one’s conduct,  
that creates a  vulnerability to  exploitation, manipulation, or duress by a  
foreign  intelligence  entity or other  individual or group.  Such  conduct  
includes: (1) engaging  in  activities,  which, if known,  could  affect the  person’s  
personal, professional, or community standing.  
Applicant failed to disclose his termination from Company A on his June 2023 SCA. 
He was concerned that it would reflect poorly on him. AG ¶ 16 (a) applies. AG ¶ 16 (e) 
applies because Applicant concealed his termination from Company A as well as the fact 
5 
 
 
 
        
        
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
         
           
       
        
       
      
         
    
         
     
   
 
      
            
         
          
     
 
        
          
  
 
that he was terminated for using the company fuel card to purchase fuel for his personal 
car. This concealment placed him in position of vulnerability to exploitation and 
manipulation. 
AG ¶ 17 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns in this case: 
(c)  the  offense  is so  minor, or so  much  time  has passed, or the  behavior is 
so  infrequent, or it happened  under such  unique  circumstances that it is 
unlikely to  recur and  does  not  cast  doubt on  the  individual's reliability,  
trustworthiness, or good judgment;  
(d) the  individual has acknowledged  the  behavior and  obtained  counseling  
to  change  the  behavior or taken  other positive steps to  alleviate  the  
stressors, circumstances, or  factors that  contributed  to  untrustworthy, 
unreliable, or other inappropriate behavior, and such  behavior is unlikely to  
recur;  and   
(e) the  individual has taken  positive  steps to  reduce  or eliminate  vulnerability 
to exploitation, manipulation, or duress.  
AG ¶ 17(c) applies. This was Applicant’s first time applying for a security clearance. 
He takes responsibility for not indicating he was fired from Company A. Once the 
investigator confronted him about his termination, he readily admitted to being terminated 
and explained the basis for the termination. He admitted to his misconduct and is truly 
sorry for his actions. He has learned a difficult lesson. He fully reimbursed Company A 
for the fuel he purchased for his personal car. His honesty and full disclos ure about his 
misuse of the company fuel card and his subsequent termination from Company A during 
his background investigation interview indicates he fully accepts responsibility for his 
behavior. More than four years have passed since he was terminated. Subsequent 
misconduct is unlikely to recur and does not cast doubt on his current reliability, 
trustworthiness, and good judgment. 
AG ¶ 17(d) applies because Applicant accepted responsibility for his behavior. He 
fully reimbursed Company A for the cost of the fuel that he bought on the company fuel 
car for his personal use. He even paid an extra $380 that Company A charged him as an 
administrative fee. He admitted he was wrong when he did not list the termination on his 
June 2023 SF 86 and has moved on in his career. 
AG ¶ 17 (e) applies because Applicant disclosed the fact that he was terminated 
from Company A as well as the basis for the termination. He is no longer vulnerable to 
exploitation, manipulation or duress. 
6 
 
 
 
      
         
  
 
 
 
 
 
       
   
  
 
        
 
    
     
     
        
      
         
   
 
 
 
        
    
 
    
 
    
Overall, Applicant learned a difficult lesson about being truthful and honest on his 
security clearance applications. He admitted that he was wrong, and he made amends to 
correct his mistakes. The Personal Conduct concern is mitigated. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the  whole-person  concept,  the  administrative judge  must  evaluate  an  
applicant’s eligibility for a  security clearance  by considering  the  totality of the  applicant’s  
conduct and  all  relevant circumstances.  The  administrative  judge  should  consider the  
nine  adjudicative  process factors listed at AG  ¶ 2(d):  
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  
and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct;  
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a security 
clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guideline E in my whole-person analysis. I considered that this was Applicant’s first time 
applying for a security clearance. I considered Applicant’s employment record since being 
terminated. I considered Applicant’s full disclosure of his termination from Company A 
and the basis for the termin ation. I considered he reimbursed Company A for the 
expenses he incurred. I considered the highly favorable recommendations of Ms. T. H. 
and Mrs. O.F. I found Applicant to be honest and direct during his hearing testimony. He 
has learned from his mistakes and is unlikely to repeat the conduct in the future. 
Applicant mitigated the security concerns raised under Guideline E. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  E:  FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a  –  1.b:  For Applicant 
7 
 
 
 
     
 
        
      
 
                                                    
 
 
  
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
Conclusion  
Considering all of the circumstances, it is clearly consistent with the national 
interest to grant Applicant a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified 
information is granted. 
Erin C. Hogan 
Administrative Judge 
8 