                                                              
                         
          
           
             
 
 
    
  
       
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
        
       
       
     
 
      
 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
 
        
 
       
      
     
     
     
 
 
______________ 
______________ 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00002 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Patricia Lynch-Epps, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
03/21/2025 
Decision 
BENSON, Pamela C., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not file his income tax returns for at least two consecutive years, and 
he did not establish he acted responsibly to address his long-standing delinquent account. 
Given the entirety of the record evidence, I conclude Applicant did not mitigat e the 
financial considerations security concerns. Eligibility for access to classified information 
is denied. 
 Statement of the Case  
On January 19, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) 
to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline F (financial considerations). The 
DCSA CAS a cted under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified 
Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of Defense 
(DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
Program (January 2, 1992), as a mended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines 
implemented by the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
 
 
 
 
 
             
        
        
     
       
          
  
 
        
         
            
    
         
    
       
   
 
                                                         
On February 23, 2024, Applicant responded to the SOR (Answer) and admitted all 
eight SOR allegations. He did not attach documentary evidence or provide an explanation 
as to why he had financial issues in his Answer. He requested a hearing before a Defense 
Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) administrative judge. I was assigned this case 
on September 12, 2024. DOHA issued a notice on November 18, 2024, scheduling the 
hearing for December 10, 2024. The hearing proceeded as scheduled via online video 
teleconferencing. 
Department Counsel submitted Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 5, which I 
admitted into evidence without objection. Applicant testified but did not submit any 
documents. I held the record open for one month in the event either party wanted to 
supplement t he record. Department Counsel timely proffered a current credit report 
marked as GE 6, which I admitted into evidence without objection. Department Counsel 
also provided Applicant a blank personal financial statement after the hearing; however, 
Applicant did not documentation while the record was held open. DOHA received the 
hearing transcript (Tr.) on December 17, 2024. The record closed on January 10, 2025. 
 Findings of Fact  
 
        
   
         
       
      
        
     
  
 
 
          
        
           
      
    
 
       
       
         
          
        
              
         
      
     
   
Applicant is 62 years old. After approximately 20 years of marriage, he was 
widowed in May 2016. He has adult children. He had three periods of unemployment 
between 2004 and 2014. From September 2014 to August 2022, he earned his current 
salary of $54,000, due to working numerous overtime hours with a previous employer. He 
was unemployed for about a month-and-a-half in mid-2022 after leaving this employment 
with a severance package of about $3,200. Since October 2022, he has worked for his 
current employer, a DOD contractor, as a test technician. His employer is sponsoring him 
for a DOD security clearance. (GE 1; Tr. 20-22, 26, 68-70, 72) 
Financial Considerations  
Applicant’s financial issues started when his wife became ill and lost her job. In 
about 2009, she was diagnosed with s serious medical aliment, and she passed away 
from this condition in May 2016. They filed bankruptcy multiple times due to the 
accumulation of significant medical bills, the lack of insurance coverage for prescriptions, 
and to prevent foreclosure on their home. (Tr. 71) 
The SOR alleges Applicant failed to file, as required, Federal income tax returns 
for tax years (TY) 2020 and 2021. (SOR ¶ 1.a) Applicant disclosed on his November 2022 
security clearance application that he had not filed his TY 2021 income tax return. He had 
been too busy with work and life, and he listed, “I will get this filed ASAP.” During his 
February 9, 2023 background interview, he told the investigator he had completed his 
2021 income tax return, but he had not yet mailed it. He promised to have this tax return 
mailed by the end of the month, when he mailed his TY 2022 Federal income tax return. 
Applicant responded to interrogatories in October 2023, which requested he provide 
Internal Revenue Service (IRS) income tax transcripts for TY years 2019, 2020, and 2021. 
Applicant provided these transcripts, which showed he filed his TY 2019 Federal income 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
       
      
             
       
   
 
       
         
        
  
 
      
       
      
        
         
        
   
 
         
         
             
      
         
        
               
    
 
      
    
           
           
       
       
       
      
  
  
       
     
            
 
tax return, but he had not filed his Federal income tax returns for TY 2020 and 2021. 
During the hearing, Applicant admitted his income tax returns were completed, but he 
had not yet mailed the paperwork to the IRS, because he believed he owed $1,200 for 
this tax year. He also admitted he had not filed his Federal income tax returns for TY 2022 
and 2023, which was not alleged in the SOR. (GE 1, 2; Tr. 29-34) 
SOR ¶ 1.b alleges Applicant filed for Chapter 13 Bankruptcy in about November 
1996. The bankruptcy was discharged in about November 2001. He testified he was 
working during this period, but his wife was not employed when they filed bankruptcy. The 
debts included in this case were for unpaid credit cards and vehicles. (Tr. 34-37; GE 5) 
SOR ¶ 1.c alleges Applicant filed for Chapter 13 Bankruptcy in about November 
2001. The bankruptcy was discharged in about October 2005. He testified his wife was 
not working, and his hours had been cut by his employer. During this period, they had 
been using credit cards to pay bills and put gas in their car, and these expenses quickly 
accumulated on their credit cards. They were also behind in paying their mortgage. He 
acknowledged he completed financial counseling every time he filed for bankruptcy, 
which is a requirement. (Tr. 37-40; GE 5) 
SOR ¶ 1.d alleges Applicant filed for Chapter 13 Bankruptcy in about June 2008. 
The bankruptcy was dismissed in about October 2012. He admitted he was working full 
time when he and his wife filed for this bankruptcy. He stated they chose to have the case 
dismissed because he was able to refinance their mortgage and successfully lower their 
payments. However, the bankruptcy records showed the case had been dismissed for 
failure to make payments in accordance with the Chapter 13 payment plan. He stated the 
other creditors included in the bankruptcy had already written off the debts and no longer 
sought payment even though the bankruptcy had been dismissed. (Tr. 40-44; GE 5) 
SOR ¶ 1.e alleges Applicant filed for Chapter 13 Bankruptcy in about May 2013. 
The bankruptcy was dismissed in about October 2014. The bankruptcy records showed 
the case had been dismissed for failure to make payments in accordance with the Chapter 
13 payment plan. He stated the only debt was listed in this bankruptcy case was his 
mortgage creditor, and he denied including any vehicle or credit-card debts. However, the 
bankruptcy petition showed multiple creditors, including the IRS, and his estimated 
liabilities were between $100,001 to $500,000. When questioned about this 
inconsistency, Applicant stated these creditors were creditors from his previous 
bankruptcy that had been dismissed in October 2012. (Tr. 44-48; GE 5) 
SOR ¶ 1.f alleges Applicant filed for Chapter 13 Bankruptcy in about February 
2016. The bankruptcy was dismissed in about June 2018. His estimated liabilities were 
between $100,001 to $500,000, as listed on the bankruptcy petition. Applicant stated that 
the  only debt listed  in  this bankruptcy case  was his mortgage  creditor, and  he  denied  
including  any  vehicle  or credit card debts.  Department  Counsel  pointed  out  that  the  
bankruptcy records showed  multiple  creditors, including  the  IRS. Applicant’s  testimony  
contradicted  the bankruptcy records. (Tr. 48-52; GE 5)  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
        
          
       
        
   
       
     
  
 
         
         
           
            
          
      
          
           
         
       
        
   
   
 
         
         
  
       
    
 
        
      
         
  
 
 
 
      
        
      
         
 
 
           
      
         
SOR ¶ 1.g alleges Applicant filed for Chapter 13 Bankruptcy in about September 
2018. The bankruptcy was dismissed in about June 2020 for failure to make payments in 
accordance with the Chapter 13 payment plan. His estimated liabilities were between 
$100,001 to $500,000, as listed on the bankruptcy petition. Applicant testified that the 
only debt included in this bankruptcy was his mortgage creditor. He did not continue 
payments to the trustee because his mortgage creditor allowed him to roll his delinquent 
mortgage payments into his loan. On several occasions, Applicant’s testimony 
contradicted the bankruptcy records. (Tr. 52-56; GE 5) 
SOR ¶ 1.h alleges Applicant is indebted to a finance creditor in the amount of 
approximately $14,305, for a van he had purchased in about 2015 and then stopped 
making payments. The vehicle was repossessed and sold at auction. In July 2018, this 
account was charged off as a bad debt. Applicant testified that, during the summer of 
2018, he tried to negotiate with the creditor, but the creditor was unwilling to accept a 
lower amount. During his background interview in February of 2023, Applicant told the 
investigator he was not aware he had a delinquent balance and promised to contact the 
creditor, and if a balance was owed, he would arrange a payment plan. During the 
hearing, Applicant admitted he did not make contact with the creditor. He stated he 
disputed t his debt, but he was unsure if he could provide supporting documentation 
because his dispute document was a hand-written letter that he could not reproduce. The 
December 2024 credit report reflected this delinquent account as unresolved. (Tr. 56-62, 
73-74; GE 2, 4, 6) 
Applicant testified he was current on all other accounts. The December 2024 credit 
report showed a new delinquent account in the amount of $193 was owed to an insurance 
agency. This was not alleged in the SOR. Applicant testified he generally lives paycheck 
to paycheck. He does not have a monthly budget to track his spending. He recently 
purchased a Mercedes-Benz vehicle with a monthly payment of $555. (Tr. 63, 66; GE 6) 
Any adverse information not alleged in the SOR will not be considered for 
disqualification purposes but may be considered in evaluating application of mitigating 
conditions and in applying the whole-person concept. See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 15-07369 
at 3 (App. Bd. Aug. 16, 2017). 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
           
     
       
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
           
       
    
              
      
       
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, rel iable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the  paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning  personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in  favor of the  national security.”  
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence  to establish  
controverted  facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut,  explain, extenuate, 
or mitigate  facts admitted by the applicant or proven  by Department Counsel.” The  
applicant has the ultimate  burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision.  
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified infor mation. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section  7  of EO 10865  provides that adverse  decisions shall  be  “in  terms of  the  
national interest and  shall  in no  sense  be  a  determination  as to  the  loyalty of the  applicant  
concerned.” See  also EO 12968, Section  3.1(b) (listing  multiple  prerequisites for access  
to classified or sensitive information).  
Analysis 
Guideline F: Financial Considerations  
The security concern for financial considerations is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to   live  within  one’s means, satisfy debts,  and  meet  financial  
obligations may indicate  poor self-control, lack of judgment,  or  
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise  
questions about an  individual’s reliability, trus tworthiness, and  ability to  
protect  classified  or  sensitive information.  Financial distress can  also be  
caused  or  exacerbated  by, and  thus can  be  a  possible  indicator of,  other  
issues of  personnel security concern  such  as  excessive gambling, mental  
health  conditions, substance  misuse, or alcohol abuse  or dependence. An  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
    
    
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
          
          
 
 
       
     
individual who  is financially overextended  is at greater risk of having  to  
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to  generate funds. . . .  
Conditions that may raise financial considerations security concerns are provided 
under AG ¶ 19. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a)  inability to satisfy debts;  
(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations; and  
(f) failure to file or fraudulently filing annual Federal, state, or local income 
tax returns or failure to pay annual Federal, state, or local income tax as 
required. 
Based  on  Applicant’s admissions,  he  failed  to  timely file his Federal income   tax  
returns for TY 2020 and  2021, and he  continues to owe  a  significant vehicle  loan  debt  of  
$14,305. He filed  multiple Chapter 13  bankruptcies since  1996, due  to  his history of  
indebtedness and financial issues. AG ¶¶ 19(a), 19(c), and  19(f) apply.  
Conditions that could mitigate the financial considerations security concerns are 
provided under AG ¶ 20. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or occurred  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur and  does not  cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;   
(b) the  conditions  that resulted  in the  financial problem  were  largely  beyond  
the  person’s control (e.g.,  loss of employment,  a  business downturn,   
unexpected  medical emergency,  a  death, divorce, or separation, clear  
victimization  by predatory lending  practices, or identity  theft), and  the  
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
(c)  the  individual has received  or is receiving  financial counseling  for the  
problem  from  a  legitimate  and  credible  source,  such  as non-profit credit  
counseling  service, and  there are clear indications that the  problem  is being  
resolved  or is under control;  
(d) the  individual initiated  and  is adhering  to  a  good-faith  effort to  repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  and  
(g) the individual has made arrangements with the appropriate tax authority 
to file or pay the amount owed and is in compliance with those 
arrangements. 
Applicant bears the burdens of production and persuasion in mitigation. An 
applicant is not held to a standard of perfection in his or her debt -resolution efforts or 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
          
      
        
         
 
  
      
            
              
         
         
         
         
        
         
 
 
  
 
 
 
         
      
           
           
     
          
           
           
  
 
           
     
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
required to be debt-free. “Rather, all that is required is than an applicant act responsibly 
given his circumstances and develop a reasonable plan for repayment, accompanied by 
‘concomitant conduct,’ that is, actions which evidence a serious intent to effectuate the 
plan.” ISCR Case No. 15-02903 at 3 (App. Bd. Mar. 9, 2017). See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 
13-00987 at 3, n. 5 (App. Bd. Aug. 14, 2014). 
Applicant did not file his Federal income tax returns for TY 2020 and 2021, and he 
admitted at the hearing that he has not filed tax returns for TY 2022 and 2023. He claimed 
the tax returns were completed, but he had not yet mailed them to the IRS. He was 
worried he owed money for tax year 2020, but since he was due a refund for 2021, he 
has provided no plausible explanation for his failure to mail the 2021 income tax return. 
He disclosed in the November 2022 security clearance application that he planned to file 
his 2021 tax return as soon as possible. Over two -and-a-half years have passed, and 
Applicant has yet to file either his 2020 or 2021 income tax returns. He presented no 
evidence of reasonable efforts to file, pay, or otherwise resolve his delinquent tax filings, 
as required by law.  
“Failure to comply with federal and state tax laws suggests that an applicant has 
a problem with abiding to well-established Government rules and regulations. Voluntary 
compliance with rules and regulations is essential for protecting classified information.” 
ISCR Case No. 14-04437 at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 15, 2016. See, ISCR Case No. 15-03481 
at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 27, 2016). 
Applicant has a long history of financial troubles, which caused him to file 
bankruptcy on multiple occasions. He currently owes over $14,000 for a van that was 
repossessed due to nonpayment. He testified he was fully aware and disputed this debt 
in 2018, but during his February 2023 background interview, he denied knowing he owed 
any money on this delinquent vehicle loan. He told the investigator he would contact the 
creditor, and if a balance was assessed, he would immediately arrange a payment plan. 
At the hearing, it was apparent that these promises were not kept by Applicant. He has 
been gainfully employed since at least 2022, and he has shown no effort to resolve this 
significant debt. 
Applicant did not establish he acted responsibly and in good faith to address and 
resolve his unfiled tax returns and his long -standing delinquent account. His financial 
issues continue to cast doubt on his current reliability, trustworthiness, and good 
judgment. None of the mitigating conditions apply. Applicant did not mitigate the financial 
considerations security concerns. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the  whole-person  concept,  the  administrative judge  must  evaluate  an  
applicant’s eligibility for a  security clearance  by considering  the  totality of the  applicant’s  
conduct and  all  relevant circumstances.  The  administrative  judge  should  consider the  
nine  adjudicative  process factors listed at AG  ¶ 2(d):  
7 
 
 
 
 
 
         
      
      
        
      
     
   
  
      
       
       
         
       
       
   
 
         
             
           
             
           
         
  
 
 
 
        
    
 
    
 
     
 
 
     
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
______________________ 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. I considered the potentially 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances 
surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under Guideline F and the 
factors in AG ¶ 2(d) in this whole-person analysis. 
Applicant did not establish he acted responsibly to address his unfiled tax returns 
and resolve an unpaid vehicle loan for a repossessed van. He has been aware of the 
Government’s concerns since at least 2023, but he has chosen not to take any action. He 
failed to demonstrate the high degree of good judgment and reliability required of persons 
granted access to classified information. See, ISCR Case No. 14 -01894 at 5 (App. Bd. 
Sept. 27, 2016). Given the entirety of the record evidence, I conclude that Appl icant did 
not mitigate the financial considerations security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline F:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.h: Against Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, I conclude 
t is not clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant Applicant eligibility 
for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Pamela C. Benson 
Administrative Judge 
8 