 
 
 
                                                              
    
                       DEPARTMENT OF  DEFENSE  
    DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS  
           
     
 
             
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
       
      
   
   
   
    
 
 
  
    
  
 
______________ 
______________ 
In  the matter  of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR  Case No.  24-01181   
 )  
Applicant for  Security Clearance  )  
Appearances  
For Government: Daniel O’Reilley, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
07/10/2025 
Decision  
LOUGHRAN, Edward W., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant mitigated the foreign influence security concerns. Eligibility for access 
to classified information is granted. 
Statement  of the Case  
On August 27, 2024, the Department of Defense (DoD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline B (foreign 
influence). Applicant responded to the SOR on September 22, 2024, and requested a 
hearing before an administrative judge. The case was assigned to another 
administrative judge on April 10, 2025, and reassigned to me on May 20, 2025. The 
hearing was convened as scheduled on May 20, 2025. 
Evidence  
Government Exhibits (GE) 1 and 2 were admitted in evidence without objection. 
Applicant testified and submitted Applicant’s Exhibits (AE) A through E, which were 
admitted without objection. 
 
   
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
    
 
 
   
     
  
 
      
   
      
   
    
 
 
 
  
    
       
  
    
 
     
       
Department Counsel requested that I take administrative notice of certain facts 
about Iraq. Without objection, I have taken administrative notice of the facts contained in 
the request. The facts are summarized in the written request and will not be repeated 
verbatim in this decision. Of particular note is the significant threat of terrorism and 
ongoing human rights problems in Iraq. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 54- year-old prospective employee of a defense contractor. He is 
applying for a security clearance for the first time. He will be hired if he receives a 
security clearance. He has the equivalent of a bachelor’s degree from an Iraqi 
university. He married in 2001 and divorced in 2013. He married his current wife in 
2014. He has an adult child from his first marriage. (Transcript (Tr.) at 20-21, 31, 50-51; 
GE 1) 
Applicant was born in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq. He worked under dangerous 
conditions in Iraq as a linguist in support of the U.S. mission from 2003 to 2004. He was 
trusted with sensitive information beyond what was provided to most linguists. Because 
of his work, he was eligible for a special immigrant visa. He immigrated to the United 
States in 2011 with his first wife and child. He became a U.S. citizen in 2019. He has 
passively retained his Iraqi citizenship. He has not used his Iraqi passport since he 
became a U.S. citizen, and it is expired. His child is a dual U.S. and Iraqi citizen who is 
about to start teaching in the United States . His ex-wife also lives in the United States. 
(Tr. at 18, 21-30, 64-67, 74-75; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2; AE C, D) 
Applicant returned to the Kurdistan Region of Iraq in 2014  and  married his wife.  
They lived at his father’s home while he worked for a media company.  His application  
for his wife to immigrate to the United States was approved. He r  eturned to the United  
States with his wife in 2016. He continued to  work for the same Kurdish  media company  
in the United States from  2016 to  2020. His job brought  him in contact with senior  
leaders  of the Kurdistan Regional  Government. His wife became a naturalized U.S.  
citizen while maintaining her Iraqi citizenship.  She  has  applied to a U.S. university  to 
attend graduate school.  His parents-in-law  are citizens  and residents of Iraq.  (Tr. at 20-
21, 29-38, 62-63; GE 1, 2)  
Applicant’s mother is deceased. His father and stepmother are citizens and  
residents of Iraq in the Kurdistan Region. His father is  a retired businessman.  (Tr. at 54-
55, 58-59; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE  1, 2)  
Applicant has siblings who are citizens and residents of Iraq and siblings who are 
citizens and residents of the United Kingdom (UK), while also holding dual Iraqi 
citizenship. One brother , who has UK citizenship, worked for the Kurdistan Regional 
Government in the UK. He is now a senior official in the Kurdistan Regional 
Government in Iraq. (Tr. at 40-47, 56; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2) 
Applicant has three other siblings who are citizens and residents of Iraq in the 
Kurdistan Region. Two of his siblings work in education. One is a teacher and the other 
2 
 
    
    
     
 
   
     
    
 
 
  
  
  
  
      
  
 
 
   
      
    
  
 
 
   
  
 
      
   
 
 
   
   
  
   
    
  
 
is a clerk. One of his sisters does not work outside the home. Two other siblings are UK 
citizens and residents. Neither are associated with the Iraqi government or the 
Kurdistan Regional Government. (Tr. at 53-58; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2) 
Applicant took his son to visit Iraq in 2024. He and his wife have semi -regular to 
regular contact with their family in the UK and Iraq. He used to own property in Iraq, but 
it went to his ex-wife in the divorce. (Tr. at 45, 68) 
Applicant dreamt of coming to the United States and the freedoms in this country  
since he was  a youth.  He is proud of his service to the U.S. military in Iraq and how  he  
helped keep his unit safe. He is also proud that he is  now an American.  He pledged his  
undivided allegiance and loyalty to the United States, which he considers  his  home. He  
credibly testified that his family in Iraq could not be used to coerce or intimidate him into  
revealing classified information and  that he would report to security any  attempt to do 
so. He would temporarily return to Iraq if  it were  part of his job for a defense contractor,  
but he does not intend to ever return to live there.  (Tr. at  17-19,  45-49, 52-53, 68-70, 73-
75)  
Applicant submitted documents and letters attesting to his strong moral character 
and outstanding performance of duties, including letters from U.S. military personnel 
attesting to his outstanding service and value to the mission. Members of his U.S. 
military unit in Iraq have maintained contact with him more than 20 years later. He is 
praised for his intelligence, work ethic, dedication, diligence, professionalism, loyalty, 
honesty, trustworthiness, and integrity. (AE A-E) 
Policies  
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines (AG ), which became 
effective on June 8, 2017. 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According 
to AG ¶ 2(c), the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables 
known as the “whole -person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all 
available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
3 
 
   
   
     
 
      
     
  
    
     
 
    
  
    
    
   
      
   
   
 
 
   
  
     
   
 
 
 
   
 
    
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
 
  
    
 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, 
or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel .” The 
applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation of potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline B, Foreign Influence  
The security concern for foreign influence is set out in AG ¶ 6: 
Foreign contacts and interests, including, but not limited to, business, 
financial, and property interests, are a national security concern if they 
result in divided allegiance. They may also be a national security concern 
if they create circumstances in which the individual may be manipulated or 
induced to help a foreign person, group, organization, or government in a 
way inconsistent with U.S. interests or otherwise made vulnerable to 
pressure or coercion by any foreign interest. Assessment of foreign 
contacts and interests should consider the country in which the foreign 
contact or interest is located, including, but not limited to, considerations 
such as whether it is known to target U.S. citizens to obtain classified or 
sensitive information or is associated with a risk of terrorism. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 7. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
4 
 
 
 
 
    
 
  
     
     
 
   
   
   
  
   
   
 
  
    
 
  
   
  
 
     
  
 
    
  
(a) contact, regardless of  m
 ethod, with a foreign family  member, business  
or professional  associate, friend, or other person who is a citizen of or  
resident in a foreign country if  that  contact  creates a heightened risk of  
foreign exploitation,  inducement, manipulation,  pressure, or  coercion;   
(b) connections to a foreign person, group, government, or country that  
c
reate a potential conflict of interest between the individual's obligation to  
protect classified or sensitive information or  technology  and the   
individual’s  desire to help a foreign person, group,  or country  by providing  
that information or technology;  and   
(e) shared living quarters with a person or persons, regardless of  
c
itizenship status, if  that relationship creates a heightened risk of foreign  
inducement, manipulation,  pressure, or  coercion.  
Appl
icant has multiple family members who are citizens of Iraq. Many of them are 
also residents of Iraq, including a sibling who is a senior official in the Kurdistan 
Regional Government. The potential for terrorist violence against U.S. interests and 
citizens re mains h igh in Iraq, and it continues to have human rights problems. 
Applicant’s connections to his family create a potential conflict of interest and a 
heightened risk of foreign exploitation, inducement, manipulation, pressure, and 
coercion. The above disqualifying conditions have been raised by the evidence. 
Conditions that could mitigate foreign influence security concerns are provided 
under AG ¶ 8. The following is potentially applicable: 
(b) there is no conflict  of interest, either because the individual’s  sense of  
loyalty or obligation to the foreign person, or allegiance to the group,  
government,  or country is so minimal,  or the  individual  has such deep and  
longstanding relationships and loyalties in the United States, that the  
individual can be expected to resolve any conflict of interest in favor of the  
U.S. interest.  
I considered the totality of Applicant’s ties to Iraq. The nature of a nation’s 
government, its relationship with the United States, and its human rights record are 
relevant in assessing the likelihood that an applicant’s family members are vulnerable to 
government coercion. The risk of coercion, persuasion, or duress is significantly greater 
if the foreign country has an authoritarian government, a family member is associated 
with or dependent upon the government, the country is known to conduct intelligence 
operations against the United States, or the foreign country is associated with a risk of 
terrorism. 
Applicant is a loyal U.S. citizen who worked overseas under dangerous 
conditions in support of the U.S. national defense. He credibly testified that his family in 
Iraq could not be used to coerce or intimidate him into revealing classified information. 
The Appeal Board has stated that such a statement, standing alone, is of limited value, 
unless there is record evidence that the applicant has acted in a similar manner in the 
5 
 
 
  
   
 
   
   
   
    
 
 
    
   
  
  
      
 
  
   
    
   
 
  
 
    
   
 
 
   
  
   
    
past in comparable circumstances, or that the applicant has  a pr evious track record of  
complying with security regulations  and procedures in the context  of  dangerous, high-
risk circumstances in  which he  made a significant contribution to the national  security. 
See, e.g., ISCR Case 07-06030 at  3-4 (App.  Bd. June 19, 2008).  In ISCR Case No.  05-
03846 at 6 (App. Bd. Nov.  14, 2006), the Appeal Board discussed this issue as  follows:  
A
s a general rule, Judges are not required to assign an applicant’s prior 
history of complying with security procedures and regulations significant 
probative value for the purposes of refuting, mitigating, or extenuating the 
security concerns raised by that applicant’s more immediate disqualifying 
conduct or circumstances. See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 01 -03357 at 4 (App. 
Bd. Dec. 13, 2005); ISCR Case No. 02-10113 at 5 (App. Bd. Mar. 25, 
2005); ISCR Case No. 03- 10955 at 2- 3 (App. Bd. May 30, 2006). 
However, the Board has recognized an exception to that general rule in 
Guideline B cases, where the applicant has established by credible, 
independent evidence that his compliance with security procedures and 
regulations occurred in the context of dangerous, high- risk circumstances 
in which the applicant had made a significant contribution to the national 
security. See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 04-12363 at 2 (App. Bd. July 14, 
2006). The presence of such circumstances can give credibility to an 
applicant’s assertion that he can be relied upon to recognize, resist, and 
report a foreign power’s attempts at coercion or exploitation. 
I find that Applicant can be expected to resolve any potential conflict of interest in 
favor of the United States. AG ¶ 8(b) is applicable. 
Whole-Person Concept 
 
Under
 the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) T he nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent  to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of  
rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation  
for the conduct; (8) the potential for  pressure, coercion, exploitation,  or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. I have incorporated my 
comments under Guideline B in my whole-person analysis. I also considered Applicant’s 
6 
 
    
  
 
     
 
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
          
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
favorable character evidence and his work overseas under dangerous conditions in 
support of the U.S. military. 
Overall, the r ecord evidence leaves me without questions or doubts about 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. I conclude Applicant 
mitigated the foreign influence security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline B:   For Applicant  
Subparagraphs  1.a-1.h:  For Applicant  
Conclusion  
It is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a 
security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Edward W. Loughran 
Administrative Judge 
7 