 
 
                                                              
 
 
           
             
 
 
   
  
     
   
  
 
 
 
 
        
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
 
 
 
       
          
       
      
   
       
     
   
 
          
      
       
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00361 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Andrew H. Henderson, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
01/08/2025 
Decision 
HALE, Charles C., Administrative Judge: 
This case involves security concerns raised under Guideline F (Financial 
Considerations). Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on May 16, 2023. On 
April 12, 2024, the Department of Defense (DoD) sent him a Statement of Reasons (SOR) 
alleging security c oncerns under Guideline F . The DoD acted under Executive Order 
(Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 
1960), as amended; D oD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security 
Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the 
adjudicative guidelines (AG) promulgated in Security Executive Agent Directive 4, 
National Security Adjudicative Guidelines (December 10, 2016). 
Applicant answered the SOR on Ju ly 14, 2024, and requested a decision on the 
written record without a hearing. Department Counsel submitted the Government’s written 
case on August 30, 2024. A complete copy of the file of relevant material (FORM) , 
1 
 
 
        
         
       
     
 
         
       
   
 
 
         
         
    
 
         
           
            
         
      
 
        
          
          
   
 
         
        
      
   
 
       
          
          
         
        
         
          
     
           
        
           
      
       
   
  
including documents identified as Items 1 through 12, was sent to Applicant on August 
30, 2024, who was given an opportunity to file objections and submit material to refute, 
extenuate, or mitigate the Government’s evidence. Applicant submitted a character letter 
as a Response. The case was assigned to me on December 6, 2024. 
The SOR and Answer (Item 1) are the pleadings in the case. FORM Items 2 
through 12 are admitted into evidence without objection. The character letter is admitted 
into evidence without objection and marked as Applicant Exhibit (AE) A. 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR he admitted all eleven SOR allegations, without 
explanation. The SOR debts , totaling over $100,000, involv e child support , consumer 
debts, and unpaid court costs and fees. 
Applicant is 41 years old. He served honorably in the Air Force from May 2002 to 
April 2011. He has been married and divorced two times. His second divorce occurred in 
June 2016. He has two minor age children from his second marriage. He has lived with 
his girlfriend since July 2020. He took college classes in 2022 and, from November 2019 
to March 2021, he attended a technical school for barbering. 
Applicant experienced a period of unemployment fr om May 2015 until February 
2016. He worked as a metrologist from March 2016 until March 2019. He list ed on his 
SCA that he was unemployed from April 2019 until February 2023. He has worked for his 
sponsor since February 2023. 
Applicant, in his response to Government interrogatories , blamed life altering 
events. Specifically, unemployment, divorce, moving from another state, and the death of 
his sister. He states, with his current employment and enrollment in school, he is working 
to get his accounts “back in good standing.” (Item 3 at 7-9.) 
Applicant’s current Director wrote a strong and detailed character letter. He noted 
Applicant had faced challenges in his past, particularly following the passing of his sister. 
He explained that Applicant moved to his current state to honor her memory and salvage 
her businesses and that Applicant had invested his entire life savings to try and turn them 
around. He stated, “[u]nfortunately, despite [Applicant’s] best efforts, the businesses were 
already struggling, and this resulted in financial setbacks for him.” He noted Applicant did 
not allow “these challenges to define him” and that Applicant has “remarkable resilience 
and determination in rebuilding his financial standing. He noted Applicant “ is actively 
working to pay off his current debt and has demonstrated steadfast commitment to 
improving his circumstances.” He noted Applicant “has proven himself to be a trustworthy, 
reliable, and diligent individual who would be an asset to any role requiring such 
clearance.” He is confident that Applicant will continue to demonstrate the highest levels 
of integrity and dedication in his service , and therefore , he strongly recommends 
Applicant be granted his clearance. (AE A.) 
2 
 
 
         
              
           
             
 
 
 
        
          
           
       
       
      
      
 
       
        
 
        
     
       
    
 
          
   
         
     
        
   
 
 
        
              
          
      
  
 
    
   
        
        
      
        
       
The credit bureau reports reflect the debts listed in on SOR. (Item 5; Item 6, Item 
7.) Applicant offered no evidence to support his efforts to get the accounts “back into good 
standing.” (Item 3.) He offered no financial details surrounding his 2016 divorce. He did 
not provide information about his current finances to corroborate the observations of his 
Director. 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it i s clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
decision. An administrative judge must consider all available and reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legall y permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865 
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the appli cant 
has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have 
established for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burde n of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan at 531. “Substantial 
evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. Washington 
Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines presume a 
nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria listed 
3 
 
 
          
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
 
     
       
     
         
           
 
 
         
     
  
 
      
 
 
therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 15 -01253 at 3 (App. 
Bd. Apr. 20, 2016).  
Once  the  Government establishes a  disqualifying  condition  by substantial 
evidence, the  burden  shifts to  the  applicant  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or mitigate  the  
facts.  Directive ¶  E3.1.15. An  applicant has  the  burden  of proving  a  mitigating  condition,  
and  the  burden  of  disproving  it never shifts  to  the  Government. See  ISCR  Case  No. 02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005).  
An applicant “has the ultimate burden  of demonstrating  that it is clearly consistent  
with the national interest to grant or continue  his security clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01-
20700  at 3  (App. Bd. Dec.  19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance  determinations should  err, if 
they must, on the side  of denials.” Egan  at 531.  
Analysis  
Guideline F, Financial Considerations  
The security concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to  live  within  one's means, satisfy debts, and  meet financial  
obligations may indicate  poor self-control, lack of judgment,  or  
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise  
questions about an  individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and  ability to  
protect  classified  or  sensitive  information. An  individual  who  is  financially 
overextended  is at greater risk of having  to  engage  in illegal or otherwise 
questionable acts to generate funds. . . .  
This concern is broader than the possibility that a person might knowingly 
compromise classified information to raise money. It encompasses concerns about a 
person’s self -control, judgment, and other qualities essential to protecting classified 
information. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible, 
unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding classified information. See ISCR 
Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012). 
The documentary evidence admitted into evidence establish es the following 
disqualifying conditions under this guideline: AG ¶ 19(a) (inability to satisfy debts); and 
AG ¶ 19(c) (a history of not meeting financial obligations.) 
The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 are relevant: 
(a)  the  behavior  happened  so  long  ago,  was  so  infrequent,  or  occurred  under  
such  circumstances  that  it  is  unlikely  to  recur  and  does  not  cast  doubt  on  the  
individual's  current  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or  good  judgment;  
(b)  the  conditions  that  resulted  in  the  financial  problem  were  largely  beyond  
4 
 
 
 
 
   
         
      
          
         
          
        
         
  
 
 
       
       
          
        
       
      
 
 
         
      
      
        
      
     
   
   
 
       
       
         
           
           
        
           
     
 
the  person's  control  (e.g.,  loss  of  employment,  a  business  downturn,  
unexpected  medical  emergency,  a  death,  divorce  or  separation,  clear  
victimization  by  predatory  lending  practices,  or  identity  theft),  and  the  
individual  acted  responsibly  under  the  circumstances;  and  
(d)  the  individual  initiated  and  is  adhering  to  a  good-faith  effort  to  repay  
overdue  creditors  or  otherwise  resolve  debts.  
AG ¶¶ 20(a) and 20(b) are not applicable. Applicant's financial difficulties may have 
been incurred, in part, because of his marital difficulties and the death of his sister, which 
are circumstances beyond his control. However , there is no documentary evidence to 
corroborate his statements or the statements of his Director to show that he acted 
responsibly under the circumstances. In order to establish mitigating condition 20(d), an 
applicant must initiate and adhere “to a good faith effort to repay overdue creditors or 
otherwise resolve debts.” See ISCR Case No. 08 -06058 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 21, 2009). 
He did not establish that he has acted responsibly and made a good-faith effort to pay or 
resolve his debts. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole -person concept. In applying the whole -
person conc ept, an administrative judge must evaluate an applicant’s eligibility for a 
security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct and all relevant 
circumstances. An administrative judge should consider the nine adjudicative process 
factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
I have incorporated my comments under Guideline F in my whole-person analysis 
and applied the adjudicative factors in AG ¶ 2(d). Because Applicant requested a 
determination on the record without a hearing, I had no opportunity to evaluate his 
credibility and sincerity based on demeanor. See ISCR Case No. 01-12350 at 3-4 (App. 
Bd. Jul. 23, 2003). I have considered his honorable military service and the exceptional 
character letter submitted by his Director. After weighing the disqualifying and mitigating 
conditions under Guideline F and evaluating all the evidence in the context of the whole 
person, I conclude Applicant did not mitigate the financial considerations security 
concerns. 
5 
 
 
 
     
 
       
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
Formal  Findings  
I make the following formal findings on the allegations in the SOR: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline F:     AGAINST APPLICANT  
Against Applicant     Subparagraphs 1.a-1.k:  
Conclusion  
It is not clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant Applicant 
eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Charles C. Hale 
Administrative Judge 
6 