 
                                                
 
 
                                                                                                                    
          
           
             
 
 
   
         
        
     
    
    
 
 
    
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
     
  
  
   
   
    
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
     
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTM
ENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 24-00641 
Appearances  
For Government: Tovah Minster Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Maurice Arcadier, Esq. 
09/19/2025 
Decision 
MURPHY, Braden M., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant has two diagnoses of severe alcohol use disorder (AUD) more than three 
years apart, and only one year of abstinence from alcohol. Notwithstanding the absence 
of any recent alcohol-related incidents since October 2020, his abstinence is unsupported 
by ongoing participation in counseling or a formal support network. Applicant needs more 
of a track record to provide sufficient evidence to mitigate security concerns about his 
problematic history of alcohol consumption. Eligibility for access to classified information 
is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted security clearance applications (SCAs) on March 2, 2016, and 
November 14, 2021. On J uly 25, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security 
Agency (DCSA) issued him a Statement of Reasons (SOR) detailing security concerns 
under Guideline G (alcohol consumption). The DSCA issued the SOR under Executive 
Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 
20, 1960), as amended; Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense 
1 
  
 
 
 
 
 
     
   
   
 
 
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended 
(Directive); and the Security Executive Agent Directive (SEAD) 4, National Security 
Adjudicative Guidelines (AG), effective within DOD on June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR on August 20, 2024, and requested a hearing before 
an administrative judge from the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) . The 
case was assigned to me on April 2, 2025 . On May 7, 2025, DOHA issued a notice 
scheduling the hearing for June 11, 2025, to occur by video teleconference. 
The hearing convened as scheduled. Department Counsel offered Government’s  
Exhibits (GE) 1 through 9, and  two  documents for purposes of  administrative  notice (AN  
I). GE 1-3 and GE 5-9  were admitted without  objection.  Applicant’s objection to admission  
of GE 4 was  overruled. (Tr. 14- 15,  18-22)1  Applicant Exhibits (AE)  1 through 5, were 
offered and admitted without objection,  though AE  3, a DOHA  Appeal  Board case,  is more  
properly considered as an  a dministrative  notice document.  Applicant’s motion for  a  
directed verdict was  denied. (Tr.  22-33)  Applicant and  two  other witnesses testified.  The 
record closed at the end of  the hearing. DOHA received the hearing transcript (Tr.) on  
June 20,  2025.  
R
equest for Administrative Notice  
Department Counsel requested that I take administrative notice (AN) of certain  
facts about alcohol disorders, from the Diagnostic  and Statistical Manual  of  Mental  
Disorders Fifth Edition (DSM -5) Excerpt on Alcohol Use Disorder s  (AN I) and from the  
National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA)  –  Understanding Alcohol  
Use Disorder (AN II).2 
Applicant  also provided a copy of the DOHA  Appeal Board case in ISCR Case No.  
20-01838 (A pp.  Bd. Dec. 29, 2022)  (AE 3) ,3  a case involving Dr. B, the same DOD  
evaluator  that  evaluated Applicant in this case.  (GE 4)   
1  Applicant’s counsel rightly noted (Tr. 20-21,182)  t hat  GE 3, in discussing the October 2020 incident  which  
led  to Applicant’s  hospitalization, diagnosis and treatment,  erroneously  contains a reference to another  
individual: “He [Applicant] reported that the police came to his home  and found [Mr. H] cleaning his guns.”  
(GE 4  at  3)  (Emphasis  added).  I regard this  as  an isolated  error  that  has  no  bearing  on  the overall  facts,  
findings, or conclusions in Dr. B’s report.   
2  According to the DSM-V,  a diagnosis of  303.90: (F10.20)  Severe  Alcohol Use Disorder  (AUD)  requires a  
finding of  six  of the 11 symptoms of AUD. (AN I at 5-6;  see also  AN II  at 2.)  
3  In  AE 3  as  i n this  decision,  the DOD  evaluator  is  only  identified as  “Dr. B ,”  but A pplicant’s  counsel  here 
was also counsel in that case, so it was  accepted that he would be in position to know that both Dr. Bs were 
the same evaluator. (AE 3 at  1, 7-8;  Tr. 180-181)  
2 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
     
   
  
  
      
   
   
  
     
    
  
      
  
    
  
      
   
 
 
 
   
   
   
       
     
       
 
  
     
Findings of Fact  
In his SOR Response, Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1. d with 
explanations. His SOR admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. After a 
thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following 
additional findings of fact. 
Applicant is 37 years old. His only marriage (2017-2021) ended in divorce. He has 
no children, though he is close to his ex -wife’s son. He has a high school diploma a nd 
some community college credits. He is a certified heating, ventilation, and air conditioning 
(HVAC) technician. He worked for a private company from 2008 to September 2015. 
From then until October 2018, he worked as an HVAC mechanic for a defense contractor. 
He was assigned to work on a military base. He moved to a new employer in November 
2018 when the contract ended. He submitted a prior clearance application in March 2016, 
and his most recent SCA in November 2021. His prior SCA was granted and he has held 
a clearance ever since. (GE 1, GE 2; Tr. 37-40, 138-139, 160-161) 
The SOR concerns a 2012 arrest for driving under the influence of alcohol (DUI) 
(SOR ¶ 1.d), an October 2020 alcohol -related hospitalization and follow -up inpatient 
treatment for a severe alcohol use disorder (AUD) (SOR ¶¶ 1.b, 1.c), and a January 2024 
DOD psychological evaluation and diagnosis of severe AUD (SOR ¶ 1.a). 
Applicant  began drinking in his teens and early 20s.  He was  charged with DUI in  
about April  2012, when he was  23 years old. He had consumed alcohol before driving to  
a liquor store on his motorcycle.  He was  pulled over  for  speeding and arrested for DUI  
after  a field sobriety test.  The DUI charge was later reduced to reckless driving. He was  
sentenced to probation  and  ordered to perform community service,   attend Alcoholics  
Anonymous  (AA) meetings,  and  complete alcohol education course.  His probation ended 
successfully in  about September 2013.  (GE  1, GE 2, GE  4, GE 9;  Tr.  38, 58-63)  (SOR ¶ 
1.d)  This is Applicant’s only alcohol -related arrest, though he has a  2011  citation for  
marijuana possession in 2011  (not alleged). (GE 1; Tr. 37-38, 63)  
In his earlier days, Applicant would drink six beers in the evening with friends, 
chiefly on weekends. He cut back when he became involved in a serious relationship and 
became more career focused. (GE 4 at 3; Tr. 63-65) 
Applicant had no further personal or professional alcohol-related incidents until fall 
of 2020. By this time, he had developed depression and was having difficulty sleeping 
while on the night shift at work for about a two-week period. He was under stress following 
his divorce, the death of his grandfather, and the death of a friend, or several friends, due 
to a drug overdose. He began taking caffeine pills (four times a day) and drinking as many 
as 12 cups of coffee a day so he could stay awake for work. ( GE 4 at 2; Tr. 40 -42) He 
3 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
     
   
     
   
   
    
 
 
     
  
   
     
 
    
    
       
   
 
       
   
       
  
      
 
     
    
   
 
   
    
 
    
 
    
     
    
  
       
told the DOD evaluator that he had attempted to find a therapist but was unsuccessful, in 
part because of COVID pandemic restrictions. 
On about October 3, 2020, Applicant’s supervisor called him when he did not 
appear for work. Applicant does not recall the specifics of either their conversation or the 
related event but acknowledged to the DOD evaluator that he “must have been 
nonsensical,” which led the supervisor to call authorities. Police came to Applicant’s home 
and found him with guns. Applicant denied loading or unloading his weapons and denied 
trying to shoot himself. He denied any history of suicidal or homicidal ideation. (GE 4 at 
2-3; Tr. 40-42, 68-70) 
Applicant was taken to Hospital R and involuntarily admitted for suicidal ideation 
and depression. He was diagnosed with adjustment disorder with unspecified modifier, 
depression, and insomnia. Upon admission, he had a serum alcohol level of .125 (blood 
alcohol content (BAC) of .125). (GE 4, GE 6; AE 1; Tr. 70-71) (SOR ¶ 1.b) 
Applicant acknowledged that he had consumed alcohol over the three days prior 
to his admission but testified that he did not believe his drinking at the time was 
problematic. Hospital records reflect that fellow union members believed he had a 
problem with alcohol, though Applicant denied anyone telling him this. (Tr. 41, 77-79) 
Applicant remained at Hospital R for about two days. Upon his release, his brother 
picked him up and took him directly to Recovery Center O, where he was admitted 
voluntarily for 45 days of inpatient treatment, from October 5 to November 13, 2020. He 
was diagnosed with severe AUD, alcohol withdrawal without perceptual disturbances, and 
caffeine-induced anxiety disorder. (GE 4, GE 7; Tr. 42-43, 70-72, 82-84, 87) (SOR ¶ 1.c) 
While there, Applicant participated in group therapy and AA meetings, which 
included discussion of alcohol use and addiction. Upon discharge, he agreed with the 
recommendation to pursue self -help support groups like AA and counseling. (GE 7 at 
254; Tr. 89, 92) He acknowledged seeing some literature about abstaining from alcohol 
during recovery , and being told to abstain by one of his therapists at Hospital R . He 
testified that “the overarching theme of the entire program that they consistently preached 
there was abstinence constantly.” (Tr. 85-88; GE 7 at 112, 114) 
Applicant returned to work a few days later. He provided an email to his supervisor 
explaining his absence. (GE 8; Tr. 51 ) After his discharge from Recovery Center O , 
Applicant saw a therapist , Dr. V, from November 2020 to April 2021 for weekly, then 
monthly outpatient treatment. Dr. V diagnosed him with adjustment disorder with anxiety 
and noted “disappearance and death of family member.” (AE 5; Tr. 43-49, 92-93) Therapy 
ended in April 2021 when Applicant showed significant improvement, with advice to return 
as needed. (GE 4 at 3; AE 1 at 9, AE 4, AE 5) He said this treatment focused on grief and 
4 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
      
     
 
 
  
    
   
   
  
 
   
   
  
    
 
   
  
     
   
   
 
     
   
    
   
   
   
     
    
  
 
  
 
    
   
    
      
    
    
 
loss. Main topics included Applicant’s divorce, his grandfather’s death, and the deaths by 
suicide or overdose of four close friends, with a “minor” focus on alcohol. He did not recall 
discussing resuming drinking with Dr. V. (Tr. 93-101, 166) To his knowledge Dr. V did not 
have access to Applicant’s prior medical records from fall 2020 and Applicant did not 
provide them to him. (Tr. 101) 
Dr. V also provided a current reference letter based on their therapist -patient 
relationship at the time. Dr. V attested to Applicant’s character and integrity, based on 
Applicant’s strong relationship with his stepson. He has widely varied interests and 
hobbies. He participated actively in therapy with a desire for positive changes in his life 
and relationships. This included “actively managing his alcohol consumption.” (AE 4) 
Applicant said he attended AA “off and on irregularly” over the next several years, 
into 2023. (Tr. 90-92) Applicant testified that he abstained from alcohol for about three to 
six months in 2021 after he left recovery. He resumed drinking by spring or summer 2021 
and said his drinking was minimal. (Tr. 98) 
Applicant was evaluated in January 2024 by Dr. B, a Ph.D. licensed clinical 
psychologist and board-certified neuropsychologist, at DOD’s request. (GE 4, GE 5) Dr. 
B reviewed Applicant’s SCAs, his 2016 background interview, the 2023 report of 
investigation, the medical records from Hospital R and Recovery Center O relating to 
Applicant’s treatment, and GE 8, his December 2020 “Self-report statement.” (GE 4) 
Applicant’s developmental, educational, occupational, medical, mental health, 
substance abuse, legal, social, family medical/psychiatric histories were detailed. He 
reported consuming alcohol twice a week but reported no history of alcohol use or misuse. 
Applicant questioned the diagnosis of alcohol use disorder as reflected in his medical 
records. He reported drinking two beers on Thursdays and eight to ten beers on the 
weekend, which he does not feel is excessive, and does not feel it impacts his functioning. 
(GE 4 at 3 -4) At his hearing, Applicant confirmed this accurately reflected his alcohol 
consumption and frequency at that time, though he noted it was “spread out throughout 
the weekend.” (Tr. 161-162) 
This report was noted to be contrary to medical records from October 2020 noting 
that Applicant described himself as a “binge drinker” who would consume as much as “a 
whole 12-pack.” (GE 4; Tr. 79 -80) He testified that he would drink on Thursdays and 
weekends with his amateur sport teammates. He said his weekend drinking varied — 
some weekends not at all, some weekends “six -plus beers, maybe 12 beers, over the 
weekend,” but, in his view, “rarely” to intoxication — maybe once or twice a month, “if 
that.” Applicant confirmed in his testimony that in 2020 he would drink a 12- pack of beer 
on his days off, every two weeks. (Tr. 65-66, 159, 165) 
5 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
     
 
 
  
  
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
  
 
   
     
  
     
   
  
   
 
    
    
    
 
 
    
    
  
Dr. B. diagnosed Applicant with severe alcohol use disorder. This was based on a 
review of available records, analysis of current psychological test results, and her 
interview of Applicant. (GE 4) (SOR ¶ 1.a) She also found that he has a documented 
history of severe alcohol use disorder: 
It is quite apparent from the records that the applicant’s reported alcohol 
use was significant, and his current consumption is excessive even for 
someone with no history of alcohol abuse, per CDC guidelines. He 
continues to meet the criteria for alcohol use disorder, severe. I have 
concerns regarding [Applicant’s] judgment, trustworthiness, and reliability. 
(GE 4 at 6) 
Dr. B also found that  Applicant “lacks awareness  or insight into the concerning  
level  of alcohol  use from his history  and acknowledges  drinking as  many  beers in a sitting  
now that he described as  ‘binge drinking’  during his alcohol treatment. I have grave  
concerns for relapse.”  While he attrib uted “the events surrounding his psychiatric  
hospitalization  to a lack of sleep,  his  alcohol’/substance misuse is clearly  more  
longstanding.” Applicant also stated he feels no need for  mental health treatment  or 
involvement in an alcohol abuse support  group. This contributes to a poor prognosis, as  
also indicated in his  psychological testing.  She found his prognosis  guarded. (GE 4 at 6-
7)  (SOR ¶ 1.a)  
Applicant said that he filled out on an evaluation on a computer and had a short in-
person interview with Dr. B. He said she did not review Dr. V’s records of Applicant’s 
treatment with him in 2020-2021. (Tr. 49-50) 
In preparation for his hearing, Applicant met with Dr. R, a clinical psychologist, at 
the request of his counsel. Dr. R spent several years as a psychologist in the Navy, both 
on active duty and in the Navy Reserve before entering private practice. (AE 1, AE 2; Tr. 
105-106) Among his primary responsibilities in the Navy was providing “fitness for duty” 
evaluations, of which he did close to 1, 000. He continues to perform government 
contracting work in the mental health field and has testified in numerous criminal court 
proceedings and clearance cases. (Tr. 105-107, 115) 
Dr. R based his diagnos is and conclusion on interview s with Applicant and his 
supervisor, Mr. S, review of numerous appropriate hospital and medical records, the 
results of psychometric testing , Dr. B’s evaluation, and notes from Dr. V, Applicant’s 
therapist. (AE 1; Tr. 54-55, 107-110) 
In describing the October 2020 incident, Dr. R’s report provides additional notable 
details, specifically that when law enforcement came to Applicant’s home, they found him 
naked in his garage disassembling his firearms. He told police he was “removing the 
6 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
     
 
 
 
 
  
   
    
   
  
       
   
 
   
   
     
  
  
  
 
  
  
    
  
    
   
  
 
 
   
   
    
 
bullets to protect the springs ,” but he could remember few details of the incident. He 
attributed the incident to severe insomnia, excessive caffeine intake, and increased 
alcohol use brought about by divorce, bereavement, and occupational stress. He denied 
suicidal intent or pointing his gun at anyone. (AE 1 at 6) 
Dr. R’s report also noted that  records from Hospital  R  reflect that  on October 3,  
2020,  Applicant had reportedly  taken a firearm to work and threatened to shoot  himself.
4 
Police t ook  him to the emergency room, where he was committed involuntarily  as a 
potential threat to himself or others. The records also document that  Applicant “endorsed  
active suicidal ideation” and that  he had loaded the weapon, cocked the hammer, and  
pointed it at his  head.  (GE  6  at 10;  AE 1  at 6-7; Tr. 116-117)  
Dr. R concluded that the events of October 2020 were “best conceptualized as an 
acute adjustment reaction rather than evidence of severe mental illness.” (AE 4 at 12) He 
noted, however, that Applicant “met criteria for severe alcohol disorder during the 
[October] 2020 admission and completed an intensive inpatient program.” (AE 4 at 13) 
When Applicant was taken to Hospital R, he had a blood- alcohol level of 125 milligrams. 
On cross-examination, Dr. R noted that this was well over the legal driving limit of 80 ml. 
(BAC of .08) and that a BAC of .125 would show intoxication. (Tr. 124-125) 
Dr. R concluded that Applicant maintained total abstinence from alcohol since July 
2024, “which seems to be corroborated by the absence of disciplinary issues,” and by a 
highly positive character reference from his direct supervisor . (AE 4 at 13 ; Tr. 112) He 
noted that this period (11 months or so at the time of the hearing) was “a very long time 
for someone who might be dealing with a chronic issue.” It is more consistent with his 
conclusion that Applicant had an acute alcohol issue in 2020 instead. (Tr. 113) 
Dr. R explained that chronic substance abuse suggests a dependency issue, with 
the individual using the substance as a coping mechanism to deal with ongoing mental 
health issues or stress. He described acute abuse as manifested by an intense stress, 
such as a divorce, rather than a preexisting issue, and “it will be resolved most likely when 
that stressor goes away” as well as through treatment and by learning coping 
mechanisms. (Tr. 110-111) Dr. R concluded that Applicant’s alcohol issues in October 
2020 were acute, and that he has a very good prognosis due to his participation in 
therapy. (Tr. 111, 114-115, 119-120) 
Dr. R noted that Dr. B performed the Personality Assessment Inventory (PAI) test, 
which is the “shortened version” of the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory 
(MMPI) test he performed during his evaluation. He believes the MM PI test is more 
4  Despite this reference in the ER intake notes,  it  app ears that  Applicant was at home at the time,  and not  
at work. It is reasonable to infer that, had he brought a firearm to work, criminal charges of some sort would 
have resulted, and there is no such evidence here.  
7 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
    
    
   
   
      
   
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
      
accurate, and “the gold standard.” He said the results of Applicant’s MMPI test showed 
no evidence of mental health issues. (Tr. 112-113; AE 1 at 12) 
Dr. R closed his report by  noting that  “there is no evidence of  underlying or  
persistent psychopathology  or significant indications of risk that would compromise his  
safety (or  others) or his performance.” He gave a favorable prognosis and recommended  
full  restoration of  Applicant’s clearance.  He d oes not believe Applicant  currently has an  
alcohol  abuse disorder and poses no risk to national security  (AE 1  at 14; Tr. 110, 115-
116, 130 -132)  Dr. R also said  severe alcohol use disorder was  “acute” and al cohol  
dependence  (or alcoholism) would be considered “chronic.” (Tr. 130-132)  
In his testimony,  Dr. R also credited Applicant’s six  months  of treatment with Dr.  
V. and agreed with Dr. V’s  diagnosis  of adjustment  disorder with anxiety. He noted that  
Applicant “may have been”  using alcohol as  a coping  mechanism  at the time and said  
Applicant  is committed to not  doing so in the future.  He specifically challenged Dr. B’s  
conclusion that Applicant suffered from  “any  level of several alcohol abuse disorder just  
because he continued having some beers.”  He saw Applicant’s  drinking  (two beers  on  
Thursdays and  eight to ten be ers over the weekend)  as “pretty  normal behavior,”  “not  
necessarily dysfunction,”  and not  evidence of “severe benders” and there w as  no 
evidence of  further DUIs or work issues.  He acknowledged that  consuming  eight  to ten, 
12,  16,  or 24 beers at  one sitting would be different , and evidence of substance abuse . 
He regarded Applicant’s level of drinking as  “normal  drinking for an average American  
male.”  (Tr. 120 -123)  Dr. R also understood Applicant to be doing well at work, in  
relationships, and, having made use of therapy in the past, to have concluded that he did  
not  need it  presently. (Tr. 123)  
For individuals diagnosed with an alcohol use disorder, Dr. R endorsed inpatient 
treatment and ongoing treatment, while leaving “things like AA up to individuals.” He did 
not see Applicant as needing AA. (Tr. 125-126) It was noted that there was no indication 
in Dr. V’s records of any post-treatment recommendation to abstain from alcohol. Dr. R 
noted that this was unusual for an individual coming out of inpatient alcohol treatment. 
But he noted that by the end of Applicant’s inpatient treatment, “he had really been treated 
more for the anxiety and stress issues,” as well as grief over the end of his marriage. He 
noted that Dr. V agreed and diagnosed Applicant with an adjustment disorder, not an 
alcohol disorder. (Tr. 128-129, 132-133) 
Applicant did not recall ever being unable to report to work due to alcohol (the 
October 2020 event notwithstanding), though he said in the records and during the 
hearing that he had little memory of that event. (Tr. 81) 
After completing rehab at Recovery Center O and after his treatment with Dr. V , 
Applicant resumed drinking alcohol in the spring of 2021 about three or four beers over a 
8 
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
     
   
    
      
   
  
 
   
 
   
   
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
weekend. He acknowledged that by the time of Dr. B’s evaluation ( February 2024), his 
drinking had increased to two beers on Thursdays and eight to ten beers on weekends, 
as the report (GE 4) indicates. By May 2024, when he submitted his interrogatory 
response (GE 3), he reported drinking one to five beers over a weekend. He also reported 
drinking to intoxication once or twice a month, either over New Years 2024, late April 2024 
(GE 3), or July 2024. He denied any driving after consuming alcohol to excess after 2021. 
(Tr. 147-151, 161-163, 172-173) 
Applicant said his alcohol consumption after his time in rehab was “greatly 
reduced,” which he later said meant “maybe two beers on a Thursday night with the guys 
and them a handful over the weekend.” He has not had any episodes of binge drinking. 
He said no provider told him to abstain from alcohol consumption. However, he said he 
has abstained from alcohol since July 2024, when he received the SOR. He said he has 
no cravings for alcohol. (Tr. 52-53, 56, 165, 171-172) 
Applicant said that, before receiving the SOR,  it had not previously been “expressly  
stated” to him that his  drinking was  a security concern for his clearance,  but the SOR led  
him to “make a choice”  to abstain.  He confirmed that he  quit drinking “cold turkey” without  
seeking  counseling, or a support group  like AA,  and has not done so  since deciding to  
abstain. He  believes  he will abstain going forwards and has  no desire to drink.  He said  
he deals with stress better after his therapy  with Dr. V. He learned about “playing the tape  
out,” as he put it, i.e.,  thinking things through in terms of “what happens next and then  
what”  as a thought process.  Applicant said if  he found himself craving alcohol again, he  
would reach out to several close friends who have also decided to “go sober .” (Tr.  153-
156, 168-170)  
Applicant  has been in a stable romantic relationship for six  months and he is close  
to his 17-year-old stepson  and his family  members, who live nearby.  He  reads self-help 
books and is active in several  amateur  team  sports leagues.  He said he has had no  
employment issues since his  2020  incident, no  hospitalizations,  and no subsequent  
episodes  relating to drugs, alcohol,  or involvement with law enforcement.  He has had no 
issues with sleep apnea or amnesia since the October 2020 event.  (Tr.  52, 56-57, 156-
158, 166-167)  
Applicant’s  supervisor, Mr. S, who had interviewed with Dr. R,  also testified.
5  Mr.  
S has worked for his  employer for seven years.  He and A pplicant  began working for their  
employer in 2018.  Mr. S became Applicant’s direct supervisor in 2022.  They have  
frequent, more than daily  interaction.  Mr. S  believes Applicant is a  good  worker and has  
good character and integrity.  He is  a reliable,  valued team  member who works long hours.  
Mr. S.  has never seen Applicant inebriated at work.  He saw  Applicant consume alcohol  
5  Throughout  Mr.  S’s testimony  in the hearing transcript, he is erroneously referred to as  “Mr. [Redacted],”  
the last  name of the Applicant. (Tr. 135-146)  This  clerical error  is likely  because  the testimony of Mr. S  was  
taken in the middle of  Applicant’s testimony  due to  his  scheduling  availability. The same is true for Dr. R.  
9 
  
 
 
 
 
 
     
   
 
 
    
   
    
  
 
   
  
 
  
   
 
   
 
 
  
 
     
  
  
    
  
 
  
  
   
   
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
    
 
at a work social event in 2023. They have no other personal interaction outside of work. 
Mr. S recommends Applicant for classified access. (Tr. 135-146) 
Policies  
It is well established that no one has a right to a security clearance. As the 
Supreme Court held in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent standard 
indicates that security determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” 484 
U.S. 518, 531 (1988) 
The AGs are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of 
human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction with the factors 
listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching adjudica tive 
goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c), the entire 
process is a conscientious scrutiny of several variables known as the “whole- person 
concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about 
the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” Under ¶ E3.1.14, the 
Government must present evidence to establish controverted facts alleged in the SOR. 
Under ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is responsible for presenting “witnesses and other 
evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven 
by Department Counsel.” The applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain 
a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified infor mation. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Analysis  
Guideline G, Alcohol  Consumption  
The security concern for alcohol consumption is set forth in AG ¶ 21: 
10 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
   
 
  
   
     
    
   
   
    
 
   
   
 
Excessive alcohol consumption often leads to the exercise of questionable  
judgment or the failure to control impulses, and can raise questions about  
an individual’s reliability and trustworthiness.  
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 22. The following disqualifying conditions are applicable in this case: 
(a) alcohol-related incidents  aw
 ay from work, such as  driving while under  
the influence, fighting,  child or spouse abuse,  disturbing the peace, or other  
incidents  of concern, regardless  of the frequency of the individual’s alcohol  
use or whether the individual has been diagnosed with an alcohol use  
disorder;   
(c) habitual  or bi nge consumption of alcohol to the point of impaired  
judgment, regardless  of whether the individual is diagnosed with alcohol  
use disorder;  
(d) diagnosis by  a duly  qual ified medical or mental health professional (e.g.,  
physician,  clinical psychologist, psychiatrist, or licensed clinical social  
worker) of alcohol use disorder;  
(e) the failure to follow  tr eatment advice once diagnosed; and  
(f) alcohol consumption, which is not in accordance with treatment  
rec
ommendations, after a diagnosis  of alcohol use disorder.   
Appli
cant began drinking heavily in his teens and early 20s. In 2012, he was 
arrested for DUI, a charge later reduced to reckless driving. He completed probation, AA 
participation and alcohol education. AG ¶ 22(a) applies to the DUI. 
In October 2020, police were called to Applicant’s home after a conversation during 
which the supervisor feared for Applicant’s safety . Police found Applicant naked in his 
garage, handing firearms, perhaps cleaning or disassembling them or perhaps 
considering using them on himself. He was involuntarily hospitalized for suicidal ideation 
and depression under the Baker Act. Upon intake, he had a BAC level of .125, which his 
evaluator, Dr. R, acknowledged was sufficient to suggest intoxication. AG ¶ 22(a) 
therefore applies to this incident. Hospital records reflect that Applicant acknowledged 
binge drinking during this timeframe, and Applicant remembers little about the incident. 
This suggests he was likely intoxicated, or at least that his judgment was significantly 
impaired at the time. AG ¶ 22(c) also applies as a result. 
11 
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
    
 
    
  
 
 
 
      
  
      
    
 
 
    
   
     
   
     
 
     
  
   
    
    
    
 
     
    
    
    
  
 
   
 
 
To his credit, Applicant went right to inpatient treatment upon his release. He was 
diagnosed at Recovery Center O with severe alcohol use disorder, alcohol withdrawal, 
and caffeine-induced anxiety disorder. AG ¶ 22(d) applies to the 2020 diagnosis. 
While there, Applicant participated in group therapy and AA meetings, including 
discussion of alcohol use and addiction, and an “overarching theme” stressing abstinence 
from alcohol. Upon discharge, he agreed with the recommendation to pursue self -help 
support groups like AA and counseling. 
Applicant saw Dr. V for mental health treatment from about November 2020 to April 
2021. Treatment ended successfully at Dr. V’s recommendation. Applicant participated in 
AA sporadically after his rehab ended, from late 2020 up to about 2023. He acknowledged 
that his priority was addressing his grief and loss and his work stress issues. He resumed 
drinking after completing treatment with Dr. V, though to a lesser degree than before. 
Applicant does not dispute, however, that by the time of Dr. B’s DOD evaluation, 
his drinking level and frequency had again increased and was about the same as it had 
been in October 2020 – two beers on Thursdays with his teammates, and then eight, ten, 
or 12 beers on weekends when he was off work. This drinking seems to have been over 
the course of a weekend rather than at one sitting. 
Even so, Dr. B considered Applicant’s alcohol history, including the 2012 DUI, his 
2020 drinking level, the 2020 incident, hospitalization, treatment, diagnosis, 
recommendations, and resumption of drinking as evidence of severe alcohol disorder in 
her February 2024 evaluation. This diagnosis was proper given the evidence before her, 
notwithstanding counsel’s arguments undercutting the weight to be given the evaluation 
and its conclusions. AG ¶ 22(d) applies to Dr. B’s diagnosis. 
In fall 2020, Applicant received “overarching” counseling and recommendations at 
Recovery Center O to abstain from alcohol . He did so for a period of time but resumed 
drinking in 2021 after his therapy with Dr. V, and his drinking had increased by February 
2024, as noted. Given this evidence, AG ¶¶ 22(e) and 22(f) also apply, even though 
Applicant has abstained from alcohol consumption since receiving the SOR in July 2024. 
Conditions that could mitigate alcohol consumption security concerns are provided 
under AG ¶ 23. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a) so much time has passed,  or
  the behavior was so infrequent, or it  
happened under such unusual circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or  
does not cast doubt on the individual’s current reliability,  trustworthiness,  or  
judgment;  
12 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
     
   
     
  
   
  
 
   
 
  
    
  
   
    
     
    
 
     
      
    
   
  
    
     
 
   
(b) the individual acknowledges his  or
  her pattern of maladaptive  alcohol  
use,  provides evidence of  actions taken to overcome this  problem, and has  
demonstrated a clear and established pattern of modified consumption or  
abstinence in accordance with treatment  recommendations;    
(c) the individual is participating in counseling or a treatment program, has  
no pr
evious history of treatment  and relapse, and is making satisfactory  
progress in a treatment program;  and  
(d) the individual has  s uccessfully completed a treatment program  along  
with any required aftercare, and has  demonstrated a clear and established  
pattern of  modified consumption or  abstinence in accordance with treatment  
recommendations.   
Appl
icant’s record with respect to mitigation is mixed, as there are facts and 
circumstances to consider on both sides of the equation. On the positive side, he has had 
only one DUI, many years ago, in 2012; he has no record of employment issues, either 
before or after October 2020, related to alcohol or otherwise. In one sense, as Applicant 
argues and as Dr. R has found, the October 2020 incident can be seen as an acute 
isolated response to outside stresses and factors, including work stresses, a divorce, and 
the deaths of several people close to him . Applicant’s excessive drinking was obviously 
a component of this. 
Following his Baker Act hospitalization, Applicant voluntarily went right to inpatient 
treatment, which he completed successfully and which he followed up with at least some 
AA participation, several months of successful counseling with Dr. V, and several months 
of abstinence. While he resumed drinking in 2021, his drinking was initially moderated, or 
at least less than it had been. However, by February 2024, when he met with Dr. B, 
Applicant’s drinking had increased to about what it was in October 2020. He has also 
remained abstinent from alcohol since receiving the SOR in July 2024, and he has had 
no police involvement, work issues, or alcohol issues since. All of these factors afford 
Applicant some credit in mitigation under AG ¶¶ 23(a), 23(b), and 23(d). 
On the other side of the equation, one must start with the fact that Applicant has 
two diagnoses of severe alcohol use disorder, over three years apart — one in October 
2020, and one in February 2024. Despite his successful completion of inpatient alcohol 
(and other) treatment in 2020 and successful completion of mental health counseling with 
Dr. V in 2021, Applicant nonetheless relapsed into alcohol use, beginning in 2021 and 
escalating from there. Why he did so is not clear. His post-treatment participation in AA 
was sporadic and irregular and it ended some time in 2023. He is credited with 
successfully focusing on addressing his grief and work stresses with Dr. V , but in the 
absence of continuing therapy or assistance from a formal support group (alcohol-related 
13 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
     
 
     
       
   
     
  
      
  
       
    
       
    
    
      
    
      
 
 
   
 
    
      
  
  
  
  
     
 
     
 
 
  
 
    
   
 
or otherwise), Applicant had resumed drinking as before by February 2024, as Dr. B 
noted. Applicant is not in any current of treatment program and he has a history of 
treatment and relapse. AG ¶ 23(c) does not apply. 
Applicant also does not believe he has a problem with alcohol, despite two 
diagnoses of severe alcohol use disorder, several years apart. Dr. R found otherwise and 
has little issue with Applicant’s drinking level and consumption pattern as of 2024, finding 
it little different from those of other adult individuals . Others, however, do not have 
diagnoses of severe alcohol use disorder in their background. Applicant does, and while 
he is credited with about a year of abstinence from alcohol at the time of the hearing, the 
lack of a formal support group or counseling to help him address the risk of relapse is 
troubling. (See AN II, endorsing counseling and support groups as examples of beneficial 
aids for individuals with AUD who are at risk of relapse). Dr. B gave Applicant a guarded 
prognosis but also expressed a grave concern for the risk of relapse. Dr. R's more recent 
prognosis was favorable. Both may well be accurate. But Dr. R also found not that 
Applicant’s alcohol use disorder is in remission, but rather that he does not have an 
alcohol use disorder at all. (Compare AE 1 at 13-14; Tr. 120-123 with AN I (DSM-V) at 2 
(defining “sustained remission.” When balanced against Applicant’s two prior diagnoses 
of severe AUD, this is difficult to reconcile. Lastly, Applicant has about a year of sobriety 
and abstinence from alcohol. This is his longest period yet, and again, is without a formal 
support network. But his two diagnoses of severe alcohol abuse disorder (October 2020 
and February 2024) are over three years apart. 
This weighs against a finding that Applicant has a long enough track record to 
minimize or eliminate the risk of relapse. Given his track record, Applicant simply has not 
“demonstrated a clear and established pattern of modified consumption or abstinence in 
accordance with treatment recommendations,” as required for full credit under AG ¶¶ 
23(b) or 23(d). When balanced against his conduct, and his history of treatments and 
relapses, that is simply not enough. He did not establish that his excessive drinking and 
related conduct occurred under unusual circumstances, that his problematic drinking is 
unlikely to recur, or that it no longer casts doubt on his current reliability, trustworthiness, 
or judgment. AG ¶¶ 23(a) also does not fully apply. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(c): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
14 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
     
 
  
  
   
      
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
    
      
 
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
      
    
 
   
 
    
    
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other  permanent behavioral  changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions under all the 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guideline G in my whole -person analysis. I considered his work record and his positive 
involvement with his family and friends. I considered the testimony of his character 
witnesses and the credibility of Applicant’s own testimony. I believe he is sincere in his 
desire to change his ways. 
But notwithstanding this, g iven his established diagnoses of severe alcohol use 
disorder over three years apart, and his history of relapse following treatment, and in the 
absence of a formal support network, Applicant needs to establish a longer track record 
of relapse-free abstinence from alcohol. He did not provide sufficient evidence to mitigate 
the alcohol consumption security concerns. This is not to say he cannot become an 
appropriate candidate for access to classified information at some point in the future, with 
a more established track record. It only means he has not met his burden to overcome 
established security concerns about his history of alcohol consumption at this point in 
time, on this record. He needs to establish a significant, sustained track record of 
abstinence before he can again be considered a suitable candidate for access to 
classified information. Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts 
as to Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. Applicant did not 
mitigate alcohol involvement security concerns. Eligibility for access to classified 
information is denied. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  Guideline G:   AGAINST APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.d
 :  Against Applicant  
15 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
Conclusion  
Considering all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant Applicant eligibility for a 
security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Braden M. Murphy 
Administrative Judge 
16 