 
 
 
  
                                                              
                             
          
           
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
       
     
  
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
   
   
    
   
   
    
  
  
   
  
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-02300 
) 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Aubrey De Angelis, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
07/08/2025 
Decision 
Lokey Anderson,  Darle
 ne D.,  Administrative Judge:  
Statement of the Case  
On November 
18, 2018; March 5, 2019; May 25, 2023; and June 6, 2023, 
Applicant submitted security clearance applications (e- QIPs). (Government Exhibits 1, 
2, 3, and 4.)  On March 6, 2025, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS) issued Applicant a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR), detailing security concerns under Guideline H, Drug Involvement and 
Substance Misuse; Guideline E, Personal Conduct; and Guideline J, Criminal Conduct. 
The action was taken under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified 
Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DoD Directive 5220.6, 
Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as 
amended (Directive); and the Adjudicative Guidelines (AG) effective within the DoD 
after June 8, 2017. 
 
 
 
 
    
  
    
        
   
   
   
    
   
 
 
 
     
  
 
      
 
      
   
 
    
 
  
 
    
 
      
   
      
 
 
 
  
        
   
    
   
 
   
        
 
    
Applicant answered the SOR on March 9, 2025, and requested a hearing before 
an administrative judge.  The case was assigned to me on May 5, 2025.  The Defense 
Office of Hearings and Appeals issued a notice of hearing on May 8, 2025, and the 
hearing was convened as scheduled on June 18, 2025. The Government offered 
thirteen exhibits, referred to as Government Exhibits 1 through 13, which were admitted 
without objection. The Applicant called two witnesses and offered two exhibits, referred 
to as Applicant’s Exhibits A and B, which were admitted into evidence without objection. 
Applicant testified on his own behalf.  DOHA received the transcript of the hearing (Tr.) 
on June 30, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 25 years old.  He has a fiancé and a six -month-old-son.  He has a 
high school diploma, some college, and military training.  He is employed by a defense 
contractor as a Qualify Assurance Supervisor.  He is seeking to obtain a security 
clearance in connection with his employment. 
Applicant has a history of drug involvement, dishonesty, and criminal conduct 
that occurred from about December 2016 through January 2023.  He began working for 
his current employer in September or October 2023 on a temporary basis, and became 
permanent in December 2023. (Tr. p. 30, and Government Exhibit 1.)  Applicant admits 
to each of the allegations set forth in the SOR.  (Applicant’s Answer dated March 9, 
2025.) 
From about December 2016 until January 2023, Applicant used marijuana with 
varying frequency.  He began using marijuana during his sophomore year in high school 
once every few months.  In total, from his sophomore year to his senior year, he 
estimated that he used marijuana between 10 to 20 times.  In college, after suffering a 
football injury, he used it the summer of May 2018, about three times.  (Tr. p. 45.) 
Six months later, in November 2018, he enlisted in the United States Navy and 
completed his first security clearance application.  (Government Exhibit 1.)  In response 
to Section 23, concerning Illegal use of Drugs or Drug Activity, the question asks if he 
has ever used any illegal drugs. Applicant answered “NO.”  This was a false response. 
He testified that he did not disclose his marijuana use on his application because he 
believed that if he did so, he would not be able to do the job that he was signing up to 
do.  (Tr. p. 48.) 
Applicant also completed a DD FORM 1966/Record of Military Processing for 
Armed Forces of the United States dated November 5, 2018.  This form asked the 
Applicant if he had ever used any narcotic or mind- altering substance?  Applicant 
initialed, “NO.”  (Government Exhibit 6.)  This was a false response.  Applicant failed to 
list his marijuana use from December 2016 through November 2018.  He also signed a 
2 
 
 
 
   
 
       
 
   
   
     
   
     
   
    
  
        
 
  
   
   
   
 
   
   
 
  
  
    
 
     
  
 
   
 
  
   
   
 
  
 
     
 
       
  
  
  
Drug and Alcohol Abuse Statement of Understanding on November 5, 2018, 
acknowledging the zero- tolerance drug policy, and that the Navy will take disciplinary 
action against those who engage in drug use.  (Government Exhibit 7.) 
Applicant began his service in the Navy in February 2019.  He testified that he 
went through boot camp, and at some point during an interview, he disclosed that he 
had used marijuana. He was also told that he may have to undergo a polygraph.  In 
March 2019, he completed a second security clearance application.  (Government 
Exhibit 2.)  In response to Question 23, this time, he disclosed some marijuana use, 
limited to 10 times in 2016 through March 2017.  He did not reveal that he used it at any 
time during college. He stated that he had no intent to use marijuana again.  To 
corroborate his intent, in April 2019, he was interviewed by a DoD investigator and 
stated that he had no future intentions to use marijuana. (Government Exhibit 5.) 
Despite what he said on his security clearance applications, and to the 
investigator during his interview in April 2019, from March 2019 until January 2023, 
Applicant continued to use marijuana sporadically while serving in the Navy, in a 
sensitive position, and while possessing a security clearance.  The first time he used 
marijuana in the Navy was when he was leaving A school in 2020.  The next day he 
was driving to see his parents in State A and his brother in State B.  He explained that 
he had 30 days off before he had to report to duty, and did not expect to take a drug 
urinalysis.  He smoked one marijuana joint the night before he left on his trip. When he 
returned to duty, a drug screening urinalysis was administered, and he passed.  (Tr. pp. 
53-54.) 
The second time he used marijuana while on active duty in the Navy was the 
following year in December 2021, around or during Christmas.  He was with friends he 
had not seen since high school, and one evening, he smoked a marijuana joint with 
them.  When he returned to duty, a drug screening urinalysis was administered, and 
once again he passed.  (Tr. pp. 54-56.) 
The third time he used marijuana in the Navy was in December 2022.  He 
explained that he had broken up with his girlfriend that he had been living with for about 
two years.  He was staying in someone’s apartment from the ship who was already 
being out-processed for marijuana usage.  It was during Christmas break, Applicant was 
trying to cope with his break -up, and he made a bad decision to use marijuana.  Then 
after Christmas break, in January 2023, when he returned to work, a drug screening 
urinalysis was administered.  On this occasion, to avoid popping positive, Applicant 
provided someone else’s urine for the drug screening urinalysis, instead of his own.  (Tr. 
p. 56-59.) 
About a month later, on January 18, 2023, Applicant was accused of providing a 
fake urine sample during the unit screening urinalysis conducted in December 2022. 
On that day Applicant used marijuana again.  He then went to the doctor for what is 
described in his medical records as anxiety and depression.  Applicant was 
3 
 
 
 
   
    
                         
 
   
   
 
   
     
 
     
  
  
  
 
  
   
   
   
     
     
     
 
      
     
   
  
 
      
    
     
      
 
     
   
   
 
   
 
      
  
   
  
  
    
administered a drug screening urinalysis, and he tested positive for marijuana.  He did 
not tell the doctor that he had used marijuana that day.  (Tr. p. 52, and Government 
Exhibit 10.) 
Applicant was punished for this fraudulent scheme.  At Captain’s Mast, he 
received non- judicial punishment under Article 15 of the Uniform Code of Military 
Justice for the offenses. of Article 81: Conspiracy; Article 82: Soliciting Commission of 
Offense; Article 92: Failure to Obey an Order; Article 93: Cruelty and Maltreatment; 
Article 112a: Wrongful Use of a Controlled Substance; and Article 117: False Official 
Statement.  He was sentenced to 60 days of restriction, forfeiture of half of his monthly 
pay for two months, and a reduction in rank to E-4. Applicant received some counseling 
from the Navy for his drug use and believes that it was very helpful.  He was 
subsequently discharged from the Navy for misconduct -drug abuse in March 2023. 
(Government Exhibits 11 and 13.) 
Unrelated to his marijuana use, while serving in the Navy, in about June 2021, 
Applicant was detained by police and charged with Soliciting a Prostitute.  Applicant 
explained that from an on- line escort service he arranged to meet a woman at a hotel 
for sexual services. He arrived at the designated hotel expecting to pay for sex and 
found out it was a sting operation. Applicant was detained and given a citation for 
Solicitation of Prostitution.  In court, he was required to pay a fine and attend classes 
with sex addicts and prostitutes before the charge was dismissed.  (Tr. pp. 76-81.) 
Applicant was proud to testify that he comes from a long family history of military 
service. His great-grandfather and grandfather served in the Air Force.  His father 
retired with 20 years in the Marine Corps; and his brother served in the Army.  No one 
had served in the Navy, and so he joined.  (Tr. p. 37.) 
Two witnesses who both hold security clearances, testified on Applicant’s behalf. 
They both think highly of the Applicant.  One of the witnesses, an E -9 Master Chief 
Petty Officer, met Applicant as a child at the age of 10 or 11, and knew his parents, 
when his father was a Marine.  Applicant and her son are best friends.  She is still active 
duty.  She stated that she knew that there was a hiccup in his Naval career.  She 
believes that he was young and dumb and has since matured. She knew nothing about 
his history of marijuana use.  The other witness, who was at one time Applicant’s 
supervisor testified that Applicant has an ability to grasp and obtain important 
information.  He was aware of Applicant’s discharge from the Navy for recreational drug 
use but was not aware of any other incidents or Government concerns.  He believes 
Applicant had a lapse in judgment and immaturity possibly brought on from peer 
pressure and curiosity.  (Tr. pp. 24-31.) 
A letter of recommendation from Applicant’s former chief, who was his direct 
supervisor in the Navy, from 2020 through January 2023, during their time on board the 
ship, indicates that Applicant was an exceptional sailor, consistently rising above his 
peers in both work ethic and performance. He was a reliable and diligent professional. 
4 
 
 
 
  
       
    
    
            
 
   
   
    
 
    
    
    
   
       
     
   
      
    
 
 
 
    
  
 
      
   
 
 
   
      
    
   
  
 
   
 
 
   
      
  
  
 
He consistently demonstrated accountability and unwavering commitment to growth. 
Each time a mistake was made, he took full responsibility, made the necessary 
correction, and ensured that it was not repeated.  He demonstrated resilience, integrity, 
and trustworthiness. H is professionalism and leadership make him a valuable asset to 
any organization. Applicant has his highest recommendation. (Applicant’s Exhibit A.) 
Applicant’s annual performance review for 2025, which was his first full year at 
his current company, indicates that in every category, his work performance is 
“exceptional” and his overall rating “exceeds expectations.”  (Applicant’s Exhibit B.) 
In considering the “whole person concept” the court must evaluate an applicant’s 
eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct 
and all relevant circumstances.  Not alleged in the SOR, but considered in this case, 
which goes directly to the question of Applicant’s credibility, is the fact that the 
Applicant, for his new employment, completed a more recent security clearance 
application dated June 6, 2023. In response to Section 23, Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug 
Activity, which asks him if in the last seven years he has used any drugs or controlled 
substances.  He answered, “NO.” (Government Exhibit 4.)  This was a false response. 
Applicant again was not truthful. 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The 
administrative judge’s over arching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and 
commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a), the entire process is a conscientious 
scrutiny of a number of variables known as the whole- person concept. The 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I 
have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical , and based on the 
evidence contained in the record. 
5 
 
 
 
      
      
    
    
    
  
 
      
    
    
    
   
      
    
  
  
 
   
  
     
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
    
   
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
Directive ¶ E3.1.14, requires the Government to present evidence t hat 
establishes controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the 
“applicant is responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, 
extenuate, or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel, 
and has the ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable clearance 
decision.” 
A person who applies for access to classified information seeks to enter into a 
fiduciary relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or 
safeguard classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally 
permissible extrapolation as to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of 
classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline H: Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Drug Involvement and 
Substance Misuse is set forth at AG ¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual's reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior 
may lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person's ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any "controlled substance" 
as defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term 
adopted in this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
6 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
     
    
 
   
  
         
 
The guideline at AG ¶ 25 contains three conditions  that could raise a security 
concern and may be disqualifying: 
(a) any substance misuse (see above definition);    
  
(b) testing positive for  an il legal  drug; and  
(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation,  
proc
essing, manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession of  
drug paraphernalia.  
The gui
deline at AG ¶ 26 contains conditions that could mitigate security 
concerns. None of the conditions are applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or ha ppened  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur  or does not cast doubt  
on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;  
and  
(b) the individual acknowledges  his  or her drug involvement  and  
substance misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this  
problem,  and has  established a pattern of  abstinence, including,  but not  
limited to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-usi ng associates and contacts;   
(2) changing or avoiding the environment  wher e drugs were  
used; and  
 
(3) providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all  
drug i
nvolvement  and  substance misuse, acknowledging that  
any future involvement or  misuse is  grounds for revocation  
of national security  eligibility.  
From
 March 2019 through January 2023, Applicant used marijuana while on 
active duty in the United States Navy, while in a sensitive position, and while 
possessing a security clearance.  His conduct shows immaturity, a pattern of 
questionable judgment, unreliability, untrustworthiness, and an inability to comply with 
rules and regulations.  Applicant claims that his last use of marijuana was in January 
2023.  Given his pattern of drug use that continued after telling the Government several 
times that he had no intention to use in the future, there is no convincing evidence that 
he has actually quit using marijuana.  If he has quit using marijuana since January 
2023, insufficient time has passed without drug use to convince the government that he 
will not return to his old ways. 
7 
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
Guideline E- Personal Conduct  
The security concern for Personal Conduct is set out in AG ¶ 15:   
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to 
cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 16. Five are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) deliberate omission, concealment,  or f
 alsification of relevant facts from  
any  personnel security questionnaire, personal history statement, or  
similar form  used to conduct investigations, determine employment  
qualifications, award benefits or status, determine national security  
eligibility or trustworthiness,  or award fiduciary responsibilities; and  
(b) deliberately providing false or  mi sleading information; or concealing or  
omitting information, concerning relevant facts to an employer,  
investigator, security official, competent medical or mental health  
professional involved in making a recommendation relevant  to a national  
security  eligibility determination, or  other official  government  
representative.    
(c) credible adverse information in several adjudicative issue areas that is  
not s
ufficient  for an adverse determination under any  other single  
guideline, but  which, when considered as a whole,  supports  a whole-
person assessment of questionable judgment, untrustworthiness,  
unreliability, lack of  candor, unwillingness to comply with rules and  
regulations, or  other characteristics indicating that the individual  may not  
properly safeguard classified or sensitive information.  
(d) credible adverse information that is not explicitly covered under any  
other  gui
deline and may not be sufficient by itself for an adverse  
determination,  but which, when combined with all available information,  
supports a whole- person assessment  of questionable judgement,  
untrustworthiness,  unreliability, lack of candor, unwillingness to comply  
with rules and regulations,  or other characteristics indicating that the  
individual  may not properly safeguard classified or sensitive information.   
This includes, but is not limited to, consideration of:   
8 
 
 
 
 
 
   
      
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
  
 
   
   
  
  
   
   
  
    
 
 
 
 
(1)  Untrustworthy or  unr
 eliable behavior to include breach of client  
confidentiality, release of proprietary information, unauthorized  
release of sensitive corporate or government  protected  
information.  
(e) personal conduct,  or c oncealment of information about  one’s conduct,  
that creates  a vulnerability to exploitation,  manipulation,  or duress by a  
foreign intelligence entity or other individual  or group.  
There ar
e conditions mitigating security concerns under AG ¶ 17.  However, 
none of them are applicable here. 
(a) the individual  mad e prompt,  good-faith efforts to correct the omission,  
concealment,  or falsification before being confronted with the facts;  
(c) the offense is so minor, or so much time has passed, or the behavior is  
so i
nfrequent, or it happened under such unique circumstances that it is  
unlikely to recur  and  does not cast doubt  on the individual’s reliability,  
trustworthiness, or  good judgment;   
(d) the individual has acknowledged the behavior and obtained counseling  
to c
hange the behavior or taken other positive steps to alleviate the  
stressors, circumstances, or factors that  contributed to untrustworthy,  
unreliable, or other inappropriate behavior,  and such behavior is unlikely  
to recur; and  
(e) the individual has taken positive steps to reduce or eliminate  
vul
nerability to exploitation,  manipulation, or duress.  
Appli
cant deliberately concealed his marijuana use on his application for military 
enlistment of January 5, 2018; on his security clearance application of November 14, 
2018; and on his most recent security clearance application of June 6, 2023.    He also 
provided a fake urine sample to the Navy, instead of his own, to avoid popping positive 
on a drug screening urinalysis in December 2022.  These facts raise serious questions 
about Applicant’s credibility.  He has not been honest, truthful, or candid with the 
Government in many aspects.  In fact, when Applicant stated on his security clearance 
application and during his interview with DoD in April 2019, that he had no future intent 
to use marijuana, he then continued to use it.  Applicant has not demonstrated that he 
can be trusted.  Thus, it is not clear whether he has actually stopped illegal drug use.  In 
totality, his conduct still shows a high degree of immaturity and poor judgment.  None of 
the mitigating conditions are applicable here. 
9 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
   
 
  
    
   
       
   
     
  
   
Guideline J, Criminal  Conduct   
The security concern relating to the guideline for Criminal Conduct is set out in 
AG ¶ 30: 
Criminal activity creates doubt  about a person’s judgment, reliability,  and 
trustworthiness. By its  very nature, it calls into question a person’s  ability  
or willingness to comply with laws, rules  and regulations.  
AG ¶ 31 describes conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a) a pattern of  mi nor offenses, any  one of which on its own would be  
unlikely to affect a  national security eligibility decision, but which in  
combination cast doubt on the individual’s judgment, reliability, or  
trustworthiness;  and  
(b) evidence (including, but not limited to, a credible allegation, an 
admi
ssion, and matters  of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of  
whether the individual  was formally charged,  prosecuted or convicted.  
The gui
deline at AG ¶ 31 contains conditions that could mitigate security 
concerns. Neither of the conditions are applicable. 
(a) so much time has  elaps ed since the criminal behavior happened, or it  
happened under such unusual circumstances, that it is unlikely  to recur  
and does not cast doubt  on the individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, or  
good judgment; and  
(c) there is evidence of successful rehabilitation; including, but not limited  
to,
 the passage of time without recurrence of criminal activity, restitution,  
compliance with the terms of parole or  probation, job training or higher  
education,  good employment record,  or constructive community  
involvement  
Appli
cant committed criminal misconduct in June 2021, when he was arrested 
and charged with Solicitation of Prostitution; and in December 2022, when he provided 
the Navy with someone else’s urine during a unit screening urinalysis in order to avoid 
popping positive for marijuana. Engaging in a fraudulent scheme of this sort was 
egregious and violated Navy rules and regulations and Federal law.  The disciplinary 
action taken against him resulted in his removal from military service.  Applicant’s 
criminal conduct demonstrates immaturity, poor judgment, and unreliability.  It also 
gives rise to serious concerns about his credibility and trustworthiness, both because of 
the nature of the offenses, and the circumstances surrounding the offenses.  The 
before-mentioned disqualifying conditions have been established and are not mitigated. 
10 
 
 
 
 
   
    
       
     
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
   
   
  
   
  
 
            
 
   
   
    
   
 
 
 
  
    
 
   
  
     
 
 
Whole-Person  Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5)  the  extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of  
rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation  
for the conduct; (8) the potential for  pressure, coercion, exploitation,  or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2( c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guidelines H, E, and J in my whole-person analysis. Based upon the facts and analysis 
set forth above, Applicant has failed to provide sufficient evidence to demonstrate that 
he meets the qualifications for a security clearance at this time.  In the event that he 
maintains a drug free lifestyle and can be open, honest, and candid with the 
Government, and no longer engages in criminal conduct, he may meet the eligibility 
requirements sometime in the future, but not at this time. 
Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts as to 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance . For all these reasons, I 
conclude Applicant failed to mitigate the Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse, 
Personal Conduct, and Criminal Conduct security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by ¶ E3.1.25 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline H:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a
 . through 1.c.  Agains
t Applicant 
11 
 
 
 
   
 
    
 
    
 
      
   
 
 
        
    
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
            
Paragraph 2,
  Guideline E:   AGAI
NST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  2.a. through 2.e.   Against Applicant 
Paragraph 3, Guideline J:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  3.a.    Against Applicant 
Conc lusion  
In l
ight of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant national security eligibility 
for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Darlene Lokey Anderson 
Administrative Judge 
12 