    
 
  
 
  
       DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
     DEFENSE  OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS    
           
             
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
    
  
 
  
 
     
  
  
   
___________ 
___________ 
In the matter of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR Case No. 24-02052  
  )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance   )  
A
ppearances  
For Government: Andrew H. Henderson, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
07/10/2025 
Decision  
PRICE, Eric C., Administrative Judge: 
Security concerns arising under Guidelines F (Financial Considerations), H (Drug 
Involvement and Substance Misuse) , and J (Criminal Conduct) are not mitigated. 
Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA)  on April 12, 2024.  On 
December  30, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) sent  
him a Statement of Reasons (SOR) alleging security  concerns  under Guidelines F, H and  
J.  The DCSA acted under Executive Order  (Exec. Or.) 10865,  Safeguarding Classified  
Information within Industry  (February 20, 1960),  as  amended; Department of Defense  
(DOD) Directive 5220.6,  Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review  
Program  (January 2, 1992),  as amended (Directive);  and the adjudicative guidelines (AG)  
promulgated in Security Executive Agent Directive 4,  National Security Adjudicative  
Guidelines  (December 10, 2016),  which became effective on June 8,  2017.  
On February 25, 2025, Applicant answered the SOR and requested a decision on 
the written record in lieu of a hearing. On March 18, 2025, Department Counsel submitted 
the Government’s File of Relevant Material (FORM) , including documents identified as 
Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 5. Government Exhibit 1 is the SOR and Applicant’s 
 
 
  
  
       
  
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
  
   
  
 
  
    
 
   
    
 
   
    
     
  
 
 
     
    
 
  
 
    
  
  
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
     
Answer, which are the pleadings in the case. Applicant received the FORM on March 21, 
2025. He was afforded an opportunity to file objections and submit material in refutation, 
extenuation, or mitigation within 30 days of receipt of the FORM. On April 18, 2025, 
Applicant submitted his response to the FORM. There were no objections by Applicant, 
and GE 1 through 5 are admitted into evidence. The case was assigned to me on June 
10, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted all SOR allegations with 
explanations. (GE 1) His admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact. 
Applicant is a 45- year-old executive employed by a defense contractor since 
January 2024. He was employed in bank management positions from January 2013 to 
January 2024. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2002. He has been married since 2016 
and was previously married. He has one child and two adult stepchildren. He was granted 
an interim security clearance on April 22, 2024, and signed a non- disclosure agreement 
on May 15, 2024. (GE 2, GE 5) 
On January 3, 2024, State A filed a tax l ien for $6,037 in a state court that listed 
Applicant and his spouse as debtors for an unspecified tax year (TY). (GE 4) SOR ¶ 1.a 
alleges that Applicant is indebted to State A for the tax lien entered against him on about 
January 3, 2024, in the amount of $6,037. Applicant admitted the allegation and stated 
the tax lien was for TY 2019. He noted that he moved from State A to State B in May 2019 
and believed that State A miscalculated his tax liability for TY 2019 based upon his total 
income for TY 2019 and not just the portion of income earned while he was a resident of 
State A. He submitted W -2 forms that showed his and his spouse’s state wages and 
amounts withheld for state income taxes in TY 2019. He asserted that based upon a Tax 
Table for “Single Filers in 2019” attached to his response that his tax liability should have 
been about $3,995, or about $117 more than his income withheld for state taxes. He said 
that he would “continue to research what I need to do to reconcile this item with [State A 
and] to determine if any tax liability exists.” (GE 1) 
In response to the FORM, Applicant asserted that: “my credit score has ranged 
from 660-760 with no late payments greater than 30 days and, outside of the state tax 
lien referenced, no other negative items. The reference to the [ State A] tax lien was 
infrequent as it has only occurred once and was caused by extenuating circumstances of 
moving states in the middle of a tax year.” He did not submit any documentary evidence 
of actions taken to dispute, resolve or otherwise address the tax lien. 
In his April 2024 SCA, Applicant disclosed he failed to file and pay federal or state 
income taxes for TY 2020, as required. He claimed that “2020 Taxes have been paid. All 
State and Federal Taxes have been paid and filed for all periods up and to the tax year 
2023.” He reported the amount of his federal tax issue as $16,000, provided a federal 
confirmation number, and said he used a personal check “for 2020 [State B] Taxes.” He 
attributed his delinquent tax filings and payments to his inability to pay income taxes due 
when required. He had withdrawn $100,000 from his 401K to pay for hardships incurred 
2 
 
 
   
   
 
   
   
   
     
     
  
     
 
   
  
 
     
   
   
    
  
 
  
 
   
  
 
   
   
   
 
    
 
 
    
     
  
    
   
   
     
   
  
    
 
    
   
   
because of COVID -19 including the loss of incentive- based income, housing costs, his 
spouse quitting her job, and increased expenses for two children. (GE 2 at 30; GE 3 at 3) 
Applicant stated that when it came time to file TY 2020 income taxes, he was 
surprised that he owed about $18,000 and could not afford to pay that amount, so he 
“pushed off filing indefinitely with no official extension.” His TY 2021 taxes due were about 
$8,000 and he could not afford to pay that amount, so he sought an extension. He “wasn’t 
sure of the exact dates but knows that as of [March 2024] both 2020 and 2021 taxes have 
been completely paid off, resolving the issue with nothing still owed.” He said that he paid 
the overdue taxes with b onuses from his employer. He did not provide documentary 
evidence that he filed income tax returns for TY 2020 or TY 2021, or that he had paid 
overdue taxes for those tax years. He stated that his TY 2022 and TY 2023 income taxes 
were timely filed and paid. (GE 3 at 3) 
Under Guideline H, SOR ¶ 2.a alleges Applicant purchased/used marijuana with 
varying frequency from about August 1999 to about September 2024, and SOR ¶ 2.b 
alleges that from April through September 2024 he used marijuana while in a sensitive 
position (i.e., one requiring a security clearance). In his response to the SOR, Applicant 
admitted the allegations, said his use was very infrequent “with long stretches of years 
with no use.” He noted his infrequent use had no impact on his employment, and 
“declared that [he] will no longer be using marijuana.” (GE 1) In his response to the FORM, 
Applicant stated his marijuana use from 1999 to 2024 was infrequent, about “one to two 
times a year [and] marijuana has never been a part of my everyday life as demonstrated 
by the 16-year gap from 2002 to 2018 where I had zero use.” He also noted he had held 
multiple positions of responsibility, was viewed as reliable and trustworthy by his 
employers, and was entrusted to handle sensitive information. (FORM Response) 
In his April 2024 SCA, Applicant disclosed he used THC or marijuana from about 
August 1999 to August 2023. He identified the frequency of use as “roughly twice a year 
and [as] almost exclusively edible THC [hereinafter marijuana] when consumed.” (GE 2 
at 27) In response to a question regarding his intent to use marijuana in the future he 
stated, “I don’t intend to use this controlled substance as I really don’t enjoy the effects.” 
(GE 2 at 28) During an August 21, 2024 interview with a government investigator, 
Applicant stated he had not used marijuana from August 2023 through July 2024, 
“volunteered he had used marijuana in the form of a vape pen the day prior to the 
[interview];” said “he had been experimenting with it once a week over the last three 
weeks.” He believed it made “him more aware” and “more motivated” to be present as a 
parent; and that he “doesn’t know if he will continue to use it because he doesn’t know if 
it’ll continue to work.” (GE 3 at 3) He used marijuana with friends at social gatherings or 
on golf trips and continues to socialize with at least one of those friends. He purchased 
the marijuana from a dispensary in State A and disclosed that he continued to use it even 
though he knew it was illegal under federal law. (GE 3 at 3) I will presume the purchase 
and use of marijuana was legal under state law in State A. 
There is no evidence that the purchase or use of recreational marijuana was or is 
legal in State B. Department Counsel asserted that recreational marijuana use is not legal 
in State B, that Applicant had provided no evidence of having a medical marijuana c ard 
3 
 
 
    
  
   
  
 
   
   
   
  
    
 
  
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
    
  
 
   
 
   
   
   
     
 
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
and provided a link to a State B website addressing State B’s “medical marijuana 
program.” Applicant neither objected to nor commented upon Department Counsel’s 
assertions. (FORM at 2, FN 6; Response to FORM) The SOR does not allege where 
Applicant purchased or used marijuana. 
During a September 16, 2024 interview with a government investigator, Applicant 
said he would not use marijuana in any form while in possession of a security clearance 
and emphasized marijuana was not important to him. (GE 3 at 4) In his December 9, 2024 
response to Interrogatories , he reported first purchasing marijuana in July 2024, last 
purchasing it on September 6, 2024, last using marijuana on September 17, 2024, and 
that he had no intention to use it in the future. (GE 3 at 8) He stated his understanding 
that marijuana “has always been illegal” under federal law, and said he is “not addicted 
to substances and can easily choose to abstain from any situations.” (GE 3 at 9) 
Applicant’s current employer required him to take a preemployment drug test. (GE 
3 at 10, 13) He claimed that he was not subject to random drug tests by his current 
employer but submitted evidence that he was subject to random urinalysis tests under 
the company policy. (GE 3 at 10, 14- 15) The stated goal of his employer’s “Substance 
Abuse Policy & Testing Program” is “a safe workplace free from those problems 
associated with drug and alcohol abuse.” It prohibits “having possession of, having 
present in a system of the body[, and] being under the influence of [an unprescribed 
controlled substance including marijuana during working hours].” All potential employees 
will be tested for controlled substances and all employees are subject to random, 
unannounced drug testing. Employees with a confirmed positive drug test are subject to 
discipline “up to and including termination” and a second positive test will result in 
termination; except if such positive test detects solely marijuana use then employer, at its 
sole discretion, may decline to terminate the employee. (GE 3 at 11-18) 
Policies  
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion of the Executive 
Branch in regulating access to information pertaining to national security emphasizing, 
“no one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 
518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual 
is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The President 
has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicant’s eligibility for 
access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly consistent with the 
national interest to do so.” EO 10865. 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for national security eligibility, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
4 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
    
      
 
 
 
  
    
 
  
  
 
     
  
   
   
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
 
  
 
  
 
    
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
   
 
  
  
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and common sense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. Likewise, I have avoided drawing inferences grounded on mere 
speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Directive ¶ E3.1.15 states an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel, and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable clearance decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
that an applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that decisions shall be “in terms of the national 
interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline F, Financial Considerations  
The security concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. . . . An individual who is financially 
5 
 
 
 
    
    
   
  
   
   
 
   
  
   
   
 
   
  
    
   
   
 
   
    
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
overextended is at  greater risk of having to engage in illegal  or otherwise 
questionable acts to generate funds. . . .   
This concern is broader than the possibility that a person might knowingly 
compromise classified information to raise money. It encompasses concerns about a 
person’s self-control, judgment, and other qualities essential to protecting classified 
information. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible, 
unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding classified information. See ISCR 
Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012). 
Applicant’s admissions that he is indebted to State A for a tax lien entered against 
him on about January 3, 2024, in the amount of $6,037, and the documentary evidence 
in the FORM establish two disqualifying conditions under this guideline: AG ¶ 19(a) 
(inability to satisfy debts) and AG ¶ 19(f) (failure to pay state income tax as required). 
Conduct not alleged in the SOR such as Applicant’s failure to timely file some 
income tax returns or to pay income taxes when due that were not alleged in the SOR 
was not considered for disqualifying purposes but may be considered for the following 
purposes: (a) to assess his credibility; (b) to evaluate his evidence of extenuation, 
mitigation, or changed circumstances; (c) to consider whether he has demonstrated 
successful rehabilitation; (d) to decide whether a particular provision of the Adjudicative 
Guidelines is applicable; or (e) for whole-person analysis. See ISCR Case No. 03-20327 
at 4 (App. Bd. Oct. 26, 2006) (citations omitted) 
The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 are potentially applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or
  occurred 
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does not cast  
doubt on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good 
judgment;   
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial  pr oblem were largely beyond  
the per son's  control (e.g.,  loss of  employment, a business downturn,  
unexpected medical  emergency, a death, divorce or separation, clear  
victimization by  predatory  lending practi ces, or identity theft),  and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- f aith effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  
(e) the individual has  a r easonable basis to  dispute the legitimacy  of the 
past-due debt which is  the cause of the problem and provides documented  
proof to substantiate the basis of  the dispute or provides evidence of  actions  
to resolve the issue; and  
6 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
     
   
     
    
 
 
   
 
 
    
  
  
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(g) the individual has  m ade arrangements with the appropriate tax authority  
to file or  pay the amount owed and is in compliance with those  
arrangements.  
None of
 the mitigating conditions are established. Applicant’s assertion that State 
A miscalculated his income taxes due for TY 2019 and pledge to further research the 
matter may constitute a reasonable basis to dispute the legitimacy of the tax lien, however 
he has submitted no evidence to substantiate the basis of any dispute or of actions he 
has taken to resolve it. There is no evidence he has made any effort to pay or otherwise 
resolve the tax lien, or of any communications or arrangements with the state tax 
authority. Upon consideration of all the circumstances including his failure to timely file or 
pay income taxes for TY 2020 and TY 2021, Applicant has not established which tax year 
the tax lien applies to or that the January 2024 tax lien happened long ago, was 
infrequent, or occurred under circumstances unlikely to recur. His behavior casts doubt 
on his current reliability, trustworthiness, and good judgment. 
Guideline H, Drug Involvement  and Substance Abuse  
AG ¶ 24 expresses the security concern pertaining to drug involvement: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual's reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person's ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any "controlled substance" as 
defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in 
this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
Applicant’s admissions and the documentary evidence in the FORM establish 
three disqualifying conditions under this guideline: AG ¶ 25(a) (any substance misuse), 
AG ¶ 25(c) (illegal possession of a controlled substance including purchase), and AG ¶ 
25(f) (any illegal drug use while holding a sensitive position). 
AG ¶ 26 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. Two potentially 
apply in this case: 
(a) the behavior  hap
 pened so long ago, was so infrequent, or  happened under  
such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or does not cast  doubt on the  
individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;  and  
(b) the individual acknowledges  hi s or her drug involvement and substance  
misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and  
has established a pattern of abstinence, including, but not limited  to: (1)  
disassociation from drug- using associates  and contacts; (2) changing or  
7 
 
 
 
   
    
 
   
  
 
 
  
     
 
  
  
    
    
   
     
 
    
    
   
  
  
 
   
  
 
    
  
    
 
   
 
    
  
 
  
     
 
  
    
  
  
avoiding the environment where drugs were used; and (3)  providing a  
signed statement of  intent to abstain from all drug involvement and  
substance misuse, acknowledging that  any future involvement or  misuse is  
grounds for revocation of national security  eligibility.  
The DOHA Appeal Board recently noted that “a commonsense understanding of 
the evolving landscape of marijuana law and policy in the United States informs us that 
simple recreational marijuana use no longer holds the same severe negative implications 
as many other illegal drugs,” which is “especially . . . true when the use occurs permissibly 
under state law.” ISCR Case No. 24- 00914 at 3 (App. Bd. April 9, 2025) (citations 
omitted). The Appeal Board has identified several factors important in the assessment of 
recreational marijuana use including state law; the duration of abstinence; company 
policy; use after completion of an SCA; use while holding a sensitive position; and broken 
promises to abstain from future use. See ISCR Case No. 24 -01001 (App. Bd. Apr. 22, 
2025) (affirming denial of security clearance; factors: one year of abstinence from 
marijuana use; used marijuana after completion of an SCA; used marijuana after 
promising not to use marijuana on SCA and during a background interview); ISCR Case 
No. 24-1005 (App. Bd. Apr. 11, 2025) (denial of security clearance reversed; factors: two 
years of abstinence from marijuana use; no marijuana use while holding a security 
clearance or occupying sensitive position; marijuana possession and use was not illegal 
under state law; no use after notice that marijuana use was federally illegal). 
Applicant used marijuana from August 1999 to about 2002, did not use it from 2002 
to 2018, and used it about twice a year from 2019 to August 2023. He was aware the 
purchase and use of marijuana was prohibited under federal law when he completed his 
April 2024 SCA and stated his intent not to use it again. He abstained from using 
marijuana from August 2023 until early August 2024, but purchased marijuana in July and 
September 2024, and used marijuana in August and September 2024. There is no 
evidence he purchased or used marijuana in 2024 in a location where such conduct was 
prohibited under state law. 
AG ¶ 26(a) is not established for the conduct alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.b. Applicant’s 
September 2024 purchase and use of marijuana were recent. His marijuana use was 
infrequent prior to August 2024; however, he increased the frequency of use to weekly 
for at least three weeks in August 2024. His purchase and use of marijuana did not 
happen under unusual circumstances making recurrence unlikely. Instead, after declaring 
his intent not to use marijuana in the future in his April 2024 SCA, he purchased marijuana 
in July 2024, used it weekly in August 2024, stated his belief that it made “him more 
aware” and “more motivated” to be present as a parent; and said that he “d[id]n’t know if 
he will continue to use it because he doesn’t know if it’ll continue to work.” (GE 3 at 2-3) 
On September 6, 2024, he purchased more marijuana, told an investigator 10 days later 
that he would not use marijuana while in possession of a security clearance, and then 
used marijuana the next day. His purchases and uses of marijuana in 2024 occurred while 
he held a sensitive position, after he completed an SCA and stated his intent to not use 
marijuana again, after he was granted an interim clearance and signed an NDA, and after 
he was interviewed by a government investigator. His behavior casts doubt on his current 
reliability, trustworthiness and good judgment. 
8 
 
 
     
   
  
     
    
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
AG ¶ 
26(b) is not fully established. Applicant has abstained from marijuana usage 
since September 17, 2024, but submitted no evidence that he has disassociated from his 
drug-using associates and contacts and no evidence that he has avoided the 
environments where he used drugs. He has declared that he does not intend to use 
marijuana in the future, but he has not submitted the signed statement required by AG ¶ 
26(b)(3). In addition, he previously purchased and used marijuana after declaring his 
intent not t o use it in the future, and as recently as August 21, 2024, equivocated on 
whether he would use marijuana in the future. 
Guideline J, Criminal  Conduct  
The SOR cross -alleges the conduct alleged  in SOR ¶ 2.a under  Guideline H as  
criminal conduct  under this guideline. The concern under this guideline is set out in AG  ¶  
30:  “Criminal  activity creates  doubt about  a person's judgment, reliability, and 
trustworthiness. By its  very nature, it calls into question a person's ability or willingness to  
comply with laws, rules, and regulations.” Applicant’s admissions and the evidence in the 
FORM establish the following disqualifying condition under AG ¶  31:   
 (b) evidence (including, but not limited to, a credible allegation, an  
adm
ission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of  
whether the individual  was formally charged,  prosecuted, or convicted.  
The following mitigating conditions are potentially  applicable  under  AG  ¶ 32:  
(
a) so much time has  elaps ed since the criminal behavior happened, or it  
happened under such unusual circumstances, that it is unlikely to recur and  
does not cast doubt on the individual's reliability, trustworthiness,  or good  
judgment; and  
(d) there is evidence of successful rehabilitation; including, but not limited  
to,
 the passage of time without recurrence of criminal activity, restitution,  
compliance with the terms of parole or  probation, job training or higher  
education, good employment  record,  or constructive community  
involvement.  
Neit
her mitigating condition is established, for the reasons set out in the above 
discussion of Guideline H. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all the circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
9 
 
 
 
   
  
     
 
  
  
      
      
  
  
  
    
    
   
  
  
 
    
   
    
   
   
   
 
  
  
   
 
  
  
   
    
    
     
   
 
    
   
   
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other  permanent behavioral  changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guidelines F, H , and J in my whole- person analysis. Some of the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) 
were addressed under that guideline, but some warrant additional comment. 
I considered Applicant’s age, work history, his employer’s substance abuse and 
testing program, his security clearance history, and that he disclosed his drug involvement 
and substance misuse in his April 2024 SCA and on multiple occasions thereafter. I 
considered that there is no evidence Applicant purchased or used marijuana in a state 
where such purchase or use was prohibited under state law. I considered that he was 
aware that his purchases and use of marijuana were prohibited under federal law at t he 
time of his purchases and uses. 
I considered Applicant’s periods of abstinence from marijuana use and his 
declarations that he would no longer use marijuana in April, September, and December 
2024, and in February and April 2025. I also considered his August 21, 2024 statement 
that he did not know if he would continue to use marijuana. I considered his purchases of 
marijuana in July and September 2024, and that his increased frequency of use of 
marijuana in August 2024 and that his September 2024 use occurred while he held a 
sensitive position, after he completed an SCA, after he was granted an interim clearance 
and signed an NDA, and after he had declared his intent not to use marijuana again. 
It is well settled that once a concern arises regarding an applicant’s security 
clearance eligibility, there is a strong presumption against granting a security clearance. 
See Dorfmont v. Brown, 913 F. 2d 1399, 1401. “[A] favorable clearance decision means 
that the record discloses no basis for doubt about an applicant’s eligibility for access to 
classified information.”  ISCR Case No. 18- 02085 at 7 (App. Bd. Jan. 3, 2020) (citing 
ISCR Case No. 12-00270 at 3 (App. Bd. Jan. 17, 2014)). Because Applicant requested a 
determination on the record without a hearing, I had no opportunity to observe his 
demeanor, assess his credibility, or question him about his tax lien and drug use. See 
ISCR Case No. 01-12350 at 3-4 (App. Bd. Jul. 23, 2003). 
I have carefully applied the law, as set forth in Egan, EO 10865, and the Directive 
to the facts and circumstances in the context of the whole person. Applicant failed to meet 
his burden of persuasion, and the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts 
10 
 
 
  
  
 
 
      
    
 
  
  
    
 
   
  
   
 
   
  
     
 
 
      
    
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
as to his eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. For all these reasons, I conclude 
Applicant failed to mitigate the security concerns raised under Guidelines F, H, and J. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:  AGAINST APPLICANT  
Subparagraph 1.a:  Against Applicant  
Paragraph 2, Guideline H: AGAINST APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 2.a-2.b:  Against Applicant  
Paragraph 3, Guideline J: AGAINST APPLICANT  
Subparagraph 3.a: Against Applicant  
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national security to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Eric C. Price 
Administrative Judge 
11 