 
 
  
                                                              
                             
          
           
 
 
 
    
  
        
     
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
      
        
       
    
          
   
    
       
      
   
 
        
             
          
        
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-01252 
) 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: John Renehan, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
03/19/2025 
Decision 
Lokey Anderson, Darlene D., Administrative Judge: 
On August 10, 2023, Applicant submitted a security clearance application ( e-
QIP). (Government Exhibit 1.) On August 22, 2024, the Defense Co unterintelligence 
and Security Agency Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS) issued Applicant 
a Statement of Reasons (SOR), detailing security concerns under Guideline H, Drug 
Involvement and Substance Misuse. The action was taken under Executive Order 
10865 (EO), Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as 
amended; DoD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance 
Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the National Security 
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or 
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective within the DoD after June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR on September 11, 2024, and requested a hearing 
before an administrative judge. The case was assigned to me on December 18, 2024. 
The Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals issued a notice of hearing on January 23, 
2025, and the hearing was convened as scheduled on February 26, 2025. The 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
        
         
   
 
       
           
            
     
  
 
      
                
         
           
      
             
         
         
            
         
 
 
        
        
             
        
         
Government offered  five  exhibits,  referred  to as Government Exhibits  1  through  5,  which  
were  admitted  without objection. The  Applicant did not offer any exhibits at the  hearing.   
She did testify on  her own behalf.  The record remained  open following the  hearing, until 
close  of business on  March 5,  2025,  to  allow the  Applicant to  submit  supporting  
documentation.  Applicant submitted  eight pages, collectively marked  as Applicant’s   
Post-Hearing  Exhibit A, which  was  admitted  without  objection.  DOHA  received  the  
transcript of the hearing (Tr.) on  March 10, 2025.  
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is  36  years old.   She  is married  and  resides  with  her  wife  and  a  child.   
She  has a  Bachelor’s  degree  in  Computer Engineering.  She  holds the  position  of  
Software  Engineer.  She  is seeking  to  obtain  a  security clearance  in connection  with her  
employment.     
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse   
The Government alleges that the Applicant has used controlled substances that 
cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner inconsistent with their 
intended purpose; and that she has engaged in conduct involving questionable 
judgment, which can raise questions about an individual’s reliability and trustworthiness. 
Applicant started working for her current employer in March 2023. She 
completed a security clearance application (SF -86) on August 10, 2023. In response to 
questions on the application in Section 23, which ask about whether in the last seven 
years she has used any illegal drugs, Applicant responded, “NO.” This was a false 
answer. 
Applicant began using marijuana, namely THC gummies in June 2020. She 
continued to use them on a weekly basis, once a week, on Friday nights. Her wife 
introduced her to THC gummies and told her that it was legal to use. Although her wife 
does not normally use marijuana, she has used it with the Applicant on a few occasions. 
Applicant stated that she uses the gummies to help her relax, as she suffers from 
depression. She explained that THC gummies have worked for her and help her in 
ways that alcohol has not. When she drinks alcohol, it does not make her feel good. 
From June 2020 to about December 2023, she purchased the THC gummies at a 
marijuana dispensary. She keeps the gummies in a drawer in her room where it is safe 
and put away, and only uses them at home. She stated that she last used 
marijuana/THC in December 2023. 
From February 2011 to March 2023, Applicant worked for another defense 
contractor. During this employment, she applied for and was granted a security 
clearance in 2012. During this employment, she also held a sensitive position. Despite 
receiving regular and annual security briefings, she used marijuana/THC on a weekly 
basis during this employment. When asked if she was aware of the company’s policies 
2 
 
 
   
      
            
        
      
   
  
 
          
            
        
         
         
  
 
     
      
 
         
   
          
          
            
         
 
 
         
      
       
        
           
           
  
 
          
       
          
         
       
        
  
 
concerning  illegal drug  use, she  stated  that  she  did not remember exactly the  policy.   
She  further stated  that  she  is not sure that the  “no  illegal drug  use  policy” came  across  
to her during that employment.  (Tr. p. 46  and 4 and  5.)   
In December 2023, as part of her recent background investigation, Applicant was 
interviewed by an investigator from DoD. She claims that it was during this interview 
that she learned for the first time that marijuana/THC is illegal under Federal law, and is 
prohibited by all DoD defense contractors.  She stated that she assumed that because it 
is legal in the state in which she resides that she is allowed to use it.  (Tr. pp. 42-43, and 
53-54.) 
Applicant testified that since that interview in December 2023, she has not used 
any form of marijuana or THC. She also stated that she is remorseful for her use, and 
she has no intention of ever using marijuana/THC or any other illegal drug in the future. 
Applicant also testified that instead of using THC to relax, she has continued seeing her 
therapist. She is on medication for her condition and is receiving counseling. (Tr. pp. 
33-34.) 
Six letters of recommendation submitted from professional associates of the 
Applicant attest to her overall competency and professionalism. A letter from 
Applicant’s past Deputy Project Manager discusses her exceptional work ethic, honesty, 
and dedication in producing high -quality work during her time at their company. She 
consistently meets deadlines, proactively addresses all unforeseen challenges and 
offers solutions ensuring minimal disruption to the overall timeline. She was the go -to 
person to assure that tasks would be completed to the highest standard. She was 
critical to the success of their team and would continue to excel in her pursuits to make 
significant contributions to any team she joins. (Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit A, 
p.1.) 
A letter of recommendation from a person who has known the Applicant for the 
past three years both personally and professionally, attests to her trustworthiness and 
her ability to get the job done no matter how difficult it might be. She is always happy to 
collaborate, assist, and provides her best efforts. Personally, she is kind and respectful. 
She is also remorseful for her past illegal drug use and has no plans to have a lapse in 
judgment again. She is considered to be an extremely valuable team member. 
(Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit A, p.2.)   
A letter of recommendation from a person who has known Applicant for two 
years highlights her unique ability to rapidly understand the needs, perform her duties 
with excellence, and help the team keep operating at the rapid clip demanded. Her 
years of experience in supporting defense is obvious as it demonstrates a high level of 
competence to her work. Her reliability and trustworthiness, and her ability to perform 
her job in the environment required is excellent. (Applicant’s Post -Hearing Exhibit A, 
p.3.)  
3 
 
 
         
            
         
           
        
      
 
 
         
       
           
               
       
 
 
          
           
          
        
 
 
          
    
   
 
 
       
 
      
        
       
         
   
 
          
    
           
     
      
        
            
 
 
      
    
        
A letter of recommendation from a professional associate of the Applicant attests 
to her honesty and integrity. She is considered a highly valuable asset to any team or 
organization. Due to her hard work, the team has seen a tremendous increase in the 
quality of the work, and she has helped the software team stay on track to meet 
deadlines. She consistently goes above and beyond her job responsibilities to help 
others. She possesses the character and work ethic that is necessary for success. 
(Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit A, p.4.) 
A letter of recommendation from a person who has known the Applicant since 
March 2023, states that she is a dedicated professional who operates with integrity, 
honesty, and a strong commitment to her work. She puts great care into her work and 
has an ability to solve complex problems with a willingness to go the extra mile when 
needed. She is trustworthy, transparent, and takes her responsibilities seriously. 
(Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit A, p. 5.) 
A note sent to Applicant’s manager indicates that she was the driving force and 
the main reason why a certain project’s software was successful. The job involved a 
complete software rewrite and a re -organization of how to handle their specific software 
code, which she was heavily involved in. She is greatly appreciated for her dedication 
to the job.  (Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit A, p.6.) 
Applicant received a Certificate in 2021, for ten years of service, and a Spotlight 
award in August 2022, for her efforts and dedication in helping to complete the project. 
(Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit A, p. 7 and 8.) 
Policies 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The 
administrative judge’s over arching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and 
commonsense decision. The entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number o f 
variables known as the whole -person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I 
4 
 
 
           
        
 
 
 
           
   
  
              
      
       
        
  
 
          
               
       
   
 
 
 
 
 
        
 
 
         
         
       
       
     
    
        
      
       
  
 
       
 
have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical and based on the 
evidence contained in the record. Likewise, I have avoided drawing inferences 
grounded on mere speculation or conjecture. 
Under  Directive ¶  E3.1.14, the  government must  present evidence  to  establish  
controverted  facts alleged  in the  SOR. Under Directive ¶  E3.1.15, the  applicant  is  
responsible  for presenting  “witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate,  
or mitigate  facts admitted  by the  applicant or proven  by Department Counsel. ” The   
applicant  has  the  ultimate  burden  of  persuasion  to  obtain  a  favorable  clearance  
decision.   
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The g overnment 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to 
potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis 
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Drug Involvement and 
Substance Misuse is set forth at AG ¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non -prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual's reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior 
may lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person's ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any "controlled substance" 
as defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term 
adopted in this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
The guideline at AG ¶ 25 contains three conditions that could raise a security 
concern and may be disqualifying: 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
             
     
         
           
       
       
      
        
           
         
      
         
(a) any substance  misuse (see above  definition);     
(c)  illegal possession  of a  controlled  substance, including  cultivation,  
processing, manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession  of  
drug paraphernalia; and   
(f)  any illegal drug  use  while granted  access to  classified  information  or  
holding a sensitive position.  
The  guideline  at AG  ¶  26  contains conditions that could  mitigate  security  
concerns:    
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or happened  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur or does  not cast  doubt  
on  the  individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  judgment;  
and  
(b) the  individual acknowledges his or  her drug  involvement and  
substance  misuse, provides evidence  of actions taken  to  overcome  this  
problem, and  has established  a  pattern  of abstinence,  including,  but  not  
limited to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts;   
(2) changing  or avoiding  the  environment where drugs were  
used; and   
(3) providing  a  signed  statement of intent to  abstain  from  all  
drug  involvement and substance  misuse,  acknowledging  that  
any future  involvement or misuse  is grounds for revocation  
of national security eligibility.  
None of the mitigating factors are applicable. Applicant used marijuana/THC 
during a 3½ year period from 2020 to December 2023. During this period, she also 
possessed and purchased, marijuana/THC. This fairly recent use, possession, and 
purchase of marijuana from 2020 through December 2023, occurred while she 
possessed a security clearance, and while holding a sensitive position. This illegal drug 
use began while she was working for her prior employer, and continued until December 
2023, while working for her current employer. This is very troubling. Applicant claims 
that she did not know that her marijuana use was illegal until her interview in December 
2023. This is not a reasonable or believable excuse for her illegal drug use. She has 
worked in the defense industry since 2011, about 14 years. She has held a security 
clearance since 2012, about 13 years. She knew or should have known that marijuana 
is illegal under Federal law, and that illegal drugs use is prohibited by the Department of 
Defense. Her recent history of illegal drug use, possession and purchase is not just 
6 
 
 
 
 
          
      
         
    
 
 
       
   
  
 
       
        
        
          
          
        
        
         
          
             
       
        
         
         
         
 
         
         
          
   
 
 
 
criminal conduct, but demonstrates poor judgment,  unreliability, and  untrustworthiness.   
Applicant’s actions are not mitigated.         
Whole-Person  Concept  
Under the whole -person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of  
rehabilitation  and  other permanent  behavioral changes;  (7) the  motivation  
for the  conduct;  (8) the  potential  for pressure, coercion,  exploitation, or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood  of continuation  or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2( c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a security 
clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments 
under Guideline H in my whole -person analysis. An individual who holds a security 
clearance is expected to comply with the law at all times. Applicant is a 36 -year-old 
Software Engineer. She is a hard worker with a good reputation. She is educated, 
intelligent, and has twelve years of work experience with a defense contractor while 
possessing a security clearance and while holding a sensitive position. She is expected 
to know the DoD and company policies and procedures concerning illegal drug use, 
which includes the use marijuana/THC, which is prohibited and against Federal law. If 
she did not know, she should have known given the long period she has worked in the 
defense industry. Applicant has not demonstrated the level of maturity needed in order 
to access classified information. Applicant is not an individual in whom the Government 
can be confident to know that she will always follow rules and regulations and do the 
right thing, even when no one is looking. At this time, Applicant does not meet the 
qualifications for a security clearance. 
Overall, the record eviden ce leaves me with questions and doubts as to 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. For all these reasons, I 
conclude Applicant failed to mitigate the Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse 
security concern. 
Formal Findings 
7 
 
 
 
      
  
 
   
 
     
 
 
 
             
      
   
                                             
 
 
  
 
 
 
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by ¶ E3.1.25 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  H:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 1.a., through  1.c.    Against Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue Applicant’s eligibility for 
a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Darlene Lokey Anderson 
Administrative Judge 
8 