 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                               
      
               
          
             
 
    
  
                                                                                     
   
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
               
                                                             
 
 
  
 
   
     
   
 
 
    
      
   
  
  
 
  
   
   
   
  
    
       
 
__________ 
__________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-01392 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: John Renehan, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
03/27/2025 
Decision 
WESLEY, ROGER C. Administrative Judge 
Based upon a review of the case file, pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, 
Applicant mitigated financial consideration concerns. Eligibility f or access to classified 
information or to hold a sensitive position is granted. 
Statement of the Case  
On August 27, 2024, the De fense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
(DCSA) Consolidated Adjudications Services (CAS) issued a statement of reasons 
(SOR) to Applicant detailing reasons why under the financial considerations guidelines 
the DCSA CAS could not mak e the preliminary affirmative determination of eligibility for 
granting a security clearance, and recommended referral to an administrative judge to 
determine whether a security clearance should be granted, continued, denied, or 
revoked. The action was taken under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified I nformation within Industry (February 20, 1960); Department of Defense 
(DoD) Directive 5220.6 Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
Program, (January 2, 1992) ( Directive); and Security Executive Agent Directive 4, 
establishing in Appendix A the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for 
Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a 
Sensitive Position (AGs), effective June 8, 2017. 
1 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
    
      
   
       
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
     
   
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
     
   
 
 
    
    
  
    
 
     
   
    
      
      
     
     
 
 
      
     
      
Applicant responded to the SOR on September 19 , 202 4, and requested a 
hearing. This case was assigned to me on January 1, 2025. A hearing was scheduled 
for February 21, 2025, and the case was heard on the scheduled date. At the hearing, 
the Gover nment’s case consisted of five exhibits (GEs 1-5), which were admitted 
without objection. Applicant relied on one witness (himself) and no ex hibits. The 
transcript (Tr.) was received on March 3, 2025. 
    Procedural Issues  
Before the close of the hearing, Applicant requested the record be kept open to 
permit him  the opportunity to supplement the record with documented payments to his 
listed SOR creditors. For good cause shown, Applicant was granted seven days to 
supplement the record. Department Counsel was afforded two days to respond. Within 
the time permitted, Applicant supplemented the record with an updated credit report , 
interrogatory responses confirming payments to most of the reported outstanding 
creditors, and payment receipts. Applicant’s post-hearing exhibits were admitted without 
objection as AEs A-I. 
     S
ummary of Pleadings  
Under
 Guideline F, Applicant allegedly accumulated 12 delinquent debts, 
exceeding $16,000. Allegedly these debts remain unresolved and outstanding. 
In Applicant’s response to the SOR, he admitted each of the allegations . He 
added no explanations or clarifications. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 36-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security 
clearance. Allegations covered in the SOR and admitted by Applicant are incorporated 
and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow. 
Background  
Applicant married in June 2015 and separated in August 2022. (GE 1) He has 
one child from his marriage (GE 1 ) He earned a high school diploma in June 2007 and 
attended community college classes between August 2007 and October 2007 without 
earning a degree or diploma. Applicant reported no military service. Since September 
2023, Applicant has been employed as a logistics specialist for his current employer. 
(GE 1) Previously, he worked for other employers in various jobs. He reported periodic 
unemployment 2021 and 2023. Applicant has never held a security clearance. 
Applicant’s finances   
Between 2016 and 2024, A pplicant accumulated 12 delinquent debts exceeding 
$16.000. (GEs 3-5; Tr. 42- 52) Applicant’s consumer debts are covered in the SOR as 
follows: SOR ¶¶ 1.a (a delinquent credit-card account for $7,936); 1.b- 1.d and 1.f (four 
2 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
 
  
  
  
   
   
 
  
 
   
     
      
    
 
   
    
      
    
  
 
 
      
  
 
                                                                                                                                                           
      
 
 
     
   
  
 
   
     
       
 
  
  
credit-card accounts  with the same creditor for the respective amounts of $2,315,  
$$1,496, $1,283); (1.e) a credit -card account for $900); (1.f) (a credit -card  account for  
$851); 1.g (a utility  account for $667);  1.h  ( a credit -card account for $603);  rental  
account for $7,613,  1.g (a utility account for  $667); 1.h (a credit-card account for $603);  
1.i (an  educational debt for  $530); 1.j (a utility debt for $338); and 1. l (a utility debt for  
$199).  Applicant  attributed his debt delinquencies to periods of unemployment  following  
the Covid-19 pandemic.   
A
fforded an opportunity to provide post -hearing documentation SOR-listed debts 
he claims to have paid, Applicant provided payment documentation for the following 
paid SOR-listed debts: S OR ¶¶ 1.a-1.b, 1.e-1.f and 1.i-1.j) and 1.l$1,300. (AEs A-I ; Tr. 
46-51) Together, these paid SOR debts exceed $13,000. Debts for which he has not 
provided any payment documentation are as follows; debts covered by SOR ¶¶ 1.c -1.h, 
and 1.k. These covered debts exceed $3,700 and h ave not been paid or otherwise 
resolved by Applicant. (GEs 3-5; Tr. 44-45 and 49-50) 
In his interrogatory responses of June 2024, A pplicant reported gross monthly 
income of $5,200, monthly expenses of $580, and monthly debt payments of $776. 
(GE3) His calculations, if accurate, leave him with a net monthly remainder of more than 
$3,700. (GE 3) E 2; Tr. 58-64) 
With his modified income/expense figures furnished in his hearing testimony (i.e., 
monthly income of $5,700 ( net of his six per cent monthly contributions to his 401(k) -
retirement account) and monthly expenses in excess of $5,000, he still retains a healthy 
monthly remainder of more than $600. (Tr. 55- 60) He credited his frugality in part to his 
saving housing expenses by living with his parents. (Tr. 60) 
Endorsements  
Applicant is well-regarded by his employee. (Tr. 66) His employee characterized 
him with honesty and demonstrated leadership. Although, he has only worked for 
Applicant for roughly six months. 
Policies  
By virtue of the jurisprudential principles recognized by the U.S. Supreme Court 
in Department of the Navy v. Egan , 484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988), “no one has a ‘right’ to a 
security clearance.” As Commander in Chief, “the President has the authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information. ” Id. at 527. 
Eligibility for access to classified information may only be granted “upon a finding that it 
is clearly consistent with the national interest to do so. ” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the a pplicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
3 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
  
    
 
   
 
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
     
  
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
    
applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial , and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The AGs list guidelines to be considered by judges in the decision- making 
process covering DOHA cases. These guidelines take into account factors that could 
create a potential conflict of interest for the individual applicant, as well as 
considerations that could affect the individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified information. These guidelines include conditions that could raise a 
security concern and may be disqualifying (disqualifying conditions), if any, and all of 
the conditions that could mitigate security concerns, if any. 
These guidelines must be considered before deciding whether or not a security 
clearance should be granted, continued, or denied. Although, the guidelines do not 
require judges to place exclusive reliance on the enumerated disqualifying and 
mitigating conditions in the guidelines in arriving at a decision. 
In addition to the relevant AGs, judges must take into account the pertinent 
considerations for assessing extenuation and mitigation set forth in ¶ 2(a) of the AGs, 
which are intended to assist the judges in reaching a fair and impartial, commonsense 
decision based on a careful consideration of the pertinent guidelines within the context 
of the whole person. The adjudicative process is designed to examine a sufficient period 
of an applicant’s life to enable predictive judgments to be made about whether the 
applicant is an acceptable security risk. 
When evaluating an applicant’s conduct, the relevant guidelines are to be 
considered together with the following ¶ 2(d) factor s: ( 1) the nature, extent, and 
seriousness of the conduct; (2) the circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include 
knowledgeable participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to which 
participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation and other 
permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation of the conduct; (8) the potential for 
pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the likelihood of continuation or 
recurrence. 
Viewing the issues raised and evidence as a whole, the following individual 
guidelines are pertinent herein: 
Financial Considerations  
The Concern: Failure or inability to live within one’s means, satisfy debts 
and meet financial obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of 
judgment, or unwillingness to abide by rules or regulations, all of which 
can raise questions about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness and 
ability to protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can 
also be caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of 
4 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
 
   
  
         
 
                                             
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
   
  
   
     
 
      
 
     
   
     
        
   
    
   
  
         
 
 
      
    
    
    
  
 
other issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, 
mental health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or 
dependence. An individual who is financially overextended is at greater 
risk of having to engage in illegal acts or otherwise questionable acts to 
generate funds. .  .  . AG ¶ 18. 
       Burdens  of
  Proof  
The Gov
ernment reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified 
information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation about 
potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Clearance 
decisions must be “in terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a 
determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 § 7. 
See also Exec. Or. 12968 (Aug. 2, 1995), § 3.1. 
Initially, the  G overnment must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in  
the per sonal  or professional history of  the a pplicant that may disqualify the  a pplicant  
from being eligible for  access  to classified information. The  Government has  the burden  
of establishing controverted facts  alleged in the SOR.  See  Egan, 484 U.S.  at 531.   
“Substantial evidence”  is  “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance. ”   See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. ,  36 F.3d 375, 380 (4
th  Cir. 1994). The guidelines  
presume a nexus or  rational connection between proven conduct under any of the  
criteria listed t herein and an  applicant’s security suitability.  See  ISCR Case No.  95-0611 
at 2 (App. Bd. May 2, 1996).   
O
nce the Government establishes a disqualifying condition by substantial 
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it 
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue his [or her] security 
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01 -20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). The burden of 
disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the G overnment. See ISCR Case No. 
02-31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, 
if they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; see AG ¶ 2(b). 
Analysis  
Security concerns are raised over Applicant’s accumulation of 12 delinquent 
accounts exceeding $ 16,000 and failure to address them prior to the issuance of the 
SOR in August 2023. Post-hearing documentation of his good-faith payments made to 
seven of his creditors leaving less than $3,700 in unaddressed SOR debts was provided 
by Applicant. 
5 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
  
  
     
  
  
   
     
      
   
 
     
  
  
     
 
    
  
 
 
   
 
      
     
    
   
 
  
Financial concerns  
Applicant’s  documented accumulation of delinquent debts warrant the application  
of two  of the disqualifying conditions (DC) of the financial consideration guideline.  DC ¶¶ 
19(a), “inability to satisfy debts”;  and 19(c),  “a history of not meeting financial  
obligations”  apply  to Applicant’s situation. His delinquent account  Accruals require no  
independent proof to substantiate them.  See  Directive 5220.6 at E3.1.1.14;  McCormick  
on Evidence  §  262 (6th  ed. 2006).  His  admitted accumulation of delinquent  accounts  is  
fully  documented and  raise  judgment issues as well over the management of  his  
finances.  See  ISCR Case No. 03-01059 (App. Bd. Sept. 24, 2004).  
F
inancial stability in a person cleared to protect classified information is required 
precisely to inspire trust and confidence in the holder of a security clearance that 
entitles the person to access classified information. While the principal concern of a 
security clearance holder’s demonstrated difficulties is vulnerability to coer cion and 
influence, judgment and trust concerns are implicit in cases involving delinquent debts. 
Historically, the timing of addressing and resolving debt delinquencies are critical 
to an assessment of an applicant’s trustworthiness, reliability, and good judgment in 
following rules and guidelines necessary for those seeking access to classified 
information or to holding a sensitive position. See ISCR Case No. 14 -06808 at 3 (App. 
Bd. Nov. 23. 2016) ; ISCR Case No. 14 -01894 at 5 (App. Bd. Aug. 18, 2015); ISCR 
Case No. 14-00221 at 2-5 (App. Bd. June 29, 2016). The Appeal Board has consistently 
imposed evidentiary burdens on applicants to provide documentation corroborating 
good-faith actions taken to resolve delinquent debt and other financial problems . See 
ISCR Case No. 19 -02593 at 4-5 (App. Bd. Oct. 18, 2021); ISCR Case No. 19- 01599 at 
3 (App. Bd. Jan. 20, 2020). 
While late in addressing his delinquent accounts, Applicant has paid most of the 
listed SOR debts since rebounding from the Covid- 19 economic contraction. In 
comparative dollar values, his seven paid debts represent the bulk of his accumulated 
delinquent accounts. Applicable mitigating conditions are as follows: MC ¶¶  20(b), “the 
conditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely beyond the person’s 
control (e.g., loss of employment, a business downturn, unexpected medical 
emergency, a death, divorce or separation, clear victimization by predatory lending 
practices, or identity theft), and the individual acted responsibly under the 
circumstances”; and 20(d) “the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- faith effort 
to repay overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.” 
Whole-person assessment  
Whole-person assessment of Applicant’s clearance eligibility requires 
consideration of whether his history of debt delinquencies is fully compatible with 
minimum standards for holding a security clearance. Applicant’s civilian contributions 
are reinforced by his addressing most of is his delinquent accounts with post -SOR debt 
Overall trustworthiness, reliability, and good judgment are established. Based on a 
consideration of all of the facts and circumstances covered in this case, safe predictions 
6 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
  
  
 
 I have carefully  applied the law, as set  forth in Department of Navy  v. Egan,  484  
U.S. 518 (1988) , Exec. Or. 10865, the Directive, and the AGs , to  the facts and  
circumstances in the context of the whole person. I  conclude financial considerations  
security concerns are  mitigated. Eligibility for  holding a security clearance is  granted.   
 
 
  
               
 
  
 
                                 
 
                                                           
 
 
      
    
 
 
 
 
   
 
__________________________ 
can be made that Applicant will be able to maintain control of his finances in the 
foreseeable future. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Guideline  F  (FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS):  FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a-1.l :    For A
pplicant 
   C onclusion  
In l
ight of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance.  Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Roger C. Wesley 
Administrative Judge 
7 