 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                               
     
               
          
             
 
    
  
                            
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
               
                                                             
 
 
  
 
       
    
   
 
 
     
      
        
         
          
          
      
     
       
    
       
        
     
 
__________ 
__________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
____________________ ) ISCR Case No. 24-01570 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Alison O’Connell, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
03/28/2025 
Decision 
WESLEY, ROGER C., Administrative Judge 
Based upon a review of the case file, pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, 
Applicant did not mitigate financial consideration concerns. Eligibility f or access to 
classified information or to hold a sensitive position is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On October 9, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS) issued a statement of reasons (SOR) 
to Applicant detailing reasons why under the financial considerations guideline the 
DCSA CAS could not mak e the preliminary affirmative determination of eligibility for 
granting a security clearance, and recommended referral to an administrative judge to 
determine whether a security clearance should be granted, continued, denied, or 
revoked. The action was taken under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified I nformation within Industry (February 20, 1960 ); Department of Defense 
(DoD) Directive 5220.6 Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
Program, (January 2, 1992) (Directive); and Security Executive Agent Directive 4, 
establishing in Appendix A the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for 
Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a 
Sensitive Position (AGs), effective June 8, 2017. 
1 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
           
           
          
           
        
  
  
  
            
        
          
       
         
     
         
         
         
    
  
 
 
      
       
     
         
 
 
           
         
   
 
 
        
      
   
    
 
          
          
   
                                                                                                                              
    
       
Applicant responded to the SOR on October 15, 2024 , and requested a hearing. 
This case was assigned to me on January 24, 2025 . A hearing was scheduled for 
February 19, 20 25, and was heard on the scheduled date. At the hearing, the 
Government’s case consisted of six exhibits. (GEs 1-6) Applicant relied on seven 
exhibits and one witness ( himself). The transcrip t (Tr.) was received on February 28 
2025. 
Procedural Issues  
Before the close of the hearing, Applicant requested the record be kept open to 
permit h im the opportunity to supplement the record with documentation of any 
deficiency balance on his mortgage covered by SOR ¶ 1.a , payment credits on his 
debts covered by SOR ¶¶ 1.d -1.e, filed tax returns for tax years 2020 -2023, and/or a 
letter from his tax accountant. For good cause shown, Applicant was granted seven 
calendar days to supplement the record. Department Counsel was afforded two days to 
respond. Within the permitted time, Applicant supplemented the record with a cover 
letter from Applicant documenting satisfaction of the allegedly owed deficiency balance 
covered by SOR ¶ 1.a, a monthly payment plan covering SOR creditor 1.b, and an 
updated statement covering SOR creditor 1.d. Applicant’s post -hearing submissions 
were admitted as AEs H-J. 
Summary of Pleadings  
Under Guideline F, Applicant allegedly (a) accumulated five delinquent consumer 
debts exceeding $15,000; (b) accrued federal taxes of $279 for tax year 2018 ;; and (c) 
failed to file his federal and state tax returns for tax years 2020-2023, a s required . 
Allegedly, Applicant ’s listed delinquent debts and unfiled federal and state tax returns 
for the years in issue remain unresolved. 
In Applicant’s response to the SOR, he admitted the allegations covered by SOR 
¶¶ 1.a -1.d but denied the allegations covered by SOR ¶¶ 1. e-1.h. Applicant did not 
provide any explanations or clarifications. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 36-year-old civilian engineer of a defense contractor who seeks a 
security clearance. Allegations covered in the SOR and admitted by Applicant are 
incorporated and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow. 
Background  
Applicant married in March 2013 and has two children from his marriage. (GE 1; 
Tr. 22 ) He earned a high school diploma in May 2007 and attended some college 
classes. (GE 1) Applicant did not report any military service. (GE 1) 
Since September 2023, Applicant has worked for his current defense contractor 
as a facility building manager. (GEs 1 and 3; Tr. 26) Previously, he worked for other 
2 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
       
        
       
      
   
 
 
         
      
    
      
       
      
   
          
  
         
 
 
        
      
      
          
    
          
            
   
 
  
  
           
        
  
 
employers in various job s as an engineer. Following his layoffs in 2014 with accrued 
debts, Applicant started his own business. (Tr. 21) Between 2017 and 2023, he was 
self-employed. (GEs 1 and 3; Tr. 22 -23) Applicant was granted a security clearance in 
2011 and held it for over seven years. (GE 1; Tr. 22) He is presently sponsored for a 
security clearance by his current employer. (GE 1) 
Applicant’s finances   
Between 2019 and 2023, Applicant accumulated five delinquent consumer debts 
exceeding $15,.000 after encountering financial problems associated with the Covid-19 
pandemic. (GEs 1 -3; Tr. 42 -43) He addressed these debts only after being confronted 
with the delinquencies in his October 2023 personal subject interview (PSI) with an 
investigator from the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) . (GE 3) Applicant’s 
consumer debts are covered in the SOR as follows: SOR ¶¶ 1.a (a delinquent mortgage 
account of $10,365); 1.b (a delinquent credit card account for $937); 1.c (a delinquent 
credit card account for $2,587); 1.d (a delinquent credit card account for $795); and 1.e 
(a delinquent credit card account for $1,185). Applicant attributed his debt delinquencies 
to periods of under employment following the Covid 19 pandemic and a lack of financial 
resources. (Tr. 23-24) 
Before the hearing, most of Applicant’s SOR-listed debts had not been 
addressed. (GEs 2 -6; Tr. 46) During the hearing, he addressed several of his listed 
creditors and tax enforcement agencies. He furnished a copy of his latest credit report, 
along with a credited $276 payment from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for tax 
year 2018. (AEs A-B) Applicant documented his settlement of the debt covered by SOR 
¶ 1.e with a compromise payment of $175. (AE C) And, he provided a documented 
2025 refund credit from the IRS in the amount of $1,465 that was applied to his owed 
state tax debt for an unidentified tax year. (AE D) 
Post-hearing, Applicant documented  his satisfaction  of the  reported  loan  balance  
on  his 2023  foreclosed  home  covered  by SOR ¶  1.a. (AE  J; Tr. 38-40) He also  provided  
proof of his payment agreements with  creditors 1.b  (with  one  payment on  an  arranged  
$70  a  month  payment  plan  with  the  same  creditor covering  SOR-listed  debts 1.b  and  
1.c) and  1.d  (with  a  $100  payment to  date  on  an  agreement  calling  for monthly  
payments  of $100). (AEs H-I;  Tr. 43- 44) Applicant’s   remaining  consumer  debts  (i.e.,  
SOR-listed creditors 1.c and 1.e) have not been resolved  and remain outstanding.  
Records document that neither Applicant nor his retained accountant timely filed 
his federal and state income tax returns, as required, for tax years 2020 through 2023. 
(GEs 1 -2; Tr. 31 -33, 55 -57) Applicant attributed his tax filing failures to having 
insufficient financial resources to satisfy the filing costs for filing his returns. (Tr. 32-34) 
Prior to  the  hearing, Applicant retained  a  tax relief professional to  resolve his  
unfiled  federal  and  state  tax returns.  (Tr. 33-34) Although  he  has apparently since  filed  
his 2023  and  2024  federal and  state  tax returns,  the  documented  returns bear no  date  
or signature, and, as a  result, cannot be  credited  with  timely filing. (AEs E- F)  Further,  
neither Applicant nor his retained  tax accountant can  be  credited  with  filing  his 2020-
3 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
           
          
 
 
    
       
     
     
     
         
  
                                                                                                                                                        
 
        
               
         
         
          
         
          
      
 
       
        
     
           
       
      
    
 
      
       
      
     
       
         
 
 
       
      
          
   
 
          
        
          
2022 federal and state tax returns. Because the costs of filing are so considerable, h 
could not furnish any time estimates as to when hi 2020 -2022 federa l and state tax 
returns will be filed. (Tr. 34) 
In his May 2024 personal financial statement (PSI), Applicant reported total 
monthly income o f $8,011, monthly expenses of $5,219, monthly debt payments of 
$380, and a net monthly remainder of $2,412. (GE 2) Currently, he earns $97,000 
annually and reports a monthly remainder of $400 after accounting for his monthly 
expenses. (Tr. 50-53) Asked about his delinquent debts and tax -filing lapses in his PSI, 
he told the OPM investigator that he is doing his best “to get out of the hole that we 
were put in.” (GE 2)  
Policies  
By virtue of the jurisprudential principles recognized by t he U.S. Supreme Court 
in Department of the Navy v. Egan , 484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988 ), “no one has a ‘right’ to a 
security clearance.” As Commander in Chief, “the President has the authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information. ” Id. at 527. 
Eligibility for access to classified information may only be granted “upon a finding that it 
is clearly consistent with the national interest to do so. ” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge ’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial , and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The AGs list guidelines to be considered by judges in the decision -making 
process covering DOHA cases. These guideline s take into account factors that could 
create a potential conflict of interest for the individual applicant, as well as 
considerations that could affect the individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified information. These guidelines include conditions that could raise a 
security concern and may be disqualifying (disqualifying conditions), if any, and all of 
the conditions that could mitigate security concerns, if any. 
These guidelines must be con sidered before deciding whether or not a security 
clearance should be granted, continued, or denied. Although, the guidelines do not 
require judges to place exclusive reliance on the enumerated disqualifying and 
mitigating conditions in the guidelines in arriving at a decision. 
In addition to the relevant AGs, judges must take into account the pertinent 
considerations for assessing extenuation and mitigation set forth in ¶ 2(a) of the AGs, 
which are intended to assist the judges in reaching a fair and impartial, commonsense 
4 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
 
          
 
 
 
 
                                                  
 
         
   
 
 
     
     
       
     
             
           
  
 
decision  based  on  a  careful consideration  of  the  pertinent guidelines within the  context  
of the whole person. The adjudicative process is designed to  examine a sufficient period  
of an   applicant’s  life  to  enable  predictive  judgments  to  be  made  about  whether  the  
applicant is an acceptable security risk.  
When  evaluating  an  applicant’s conduct, the  relevant  guidelines are to  be  
considered  together with  the  following  ¶  2(d) factors:  (1) the  nature, extent,  and  
seriousness of the  conduct; (2) the  circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  
knowledgeable participation; (3)  the  frequency and  recency of  the  conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to   which  
participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  and  other 
permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  of the  conduct;  (8) the  potential for  
pressure, coercion,  exploitation, or duress;  and  (9) the  likelihood  of continuation  or  
recurrence.  
Viewing the issues raised and evidence as a whole, the following individual 
guidelines are pertinent herein: 
Financial Considerations  
The  Concern:  Failure  or inability to  live  within one’s means, satisfy debts 
and  meet  financial obligations  may indicate  poor self-control,  lack of  
judgment,  or unwillingness to  abide  by rules or regulations,  all  of  which  
can  raise  questions  about  an  individual’s reliability, trustworthiness and  
ability to  protect  classified  or sensitive information.  Financial distress can  
also be  caused  or exacerbated  by, and  thus can  be  a  possible  indicator of  
other issues of personnel security concern such  as  excessive  gambling,  
mental health  conditions, substance  misuse, or alcohol abuse  or 
dependence. An  individual who  is financially  overextended  is at greater  
risk of having  to  engage  in illegal acts or otherwise questionable acts to  
generate  funds.  .  .  .   AG ¶  18.   
  Burdens of Proof  
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. 
Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk the applicant 
may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. Such decisions 
entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation a bout potential, rather than 
actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Clearance decisions must be “in 
terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty 
of the applicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 § 7. See also Exec. Or. 12968 (Aug. 
2, 1995), § 3.1. 
5 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
     
     
         
          
      
          
            
   
    
 
 
      
       
          
        
    
 
        
        
     
      
    
   
 
 
 
        
        
       
     
   
 
Initially, the  Government must establish, by  substantial evidence,  conditions in  
the  personal  or professional history of  the  applicant  that  may  disqualify the  applicant  
from  being  eligible  for  access to  classified  information.  The  Government has  the  burden  
of establishing  controverted  facts alleged  in  the  SOR.  See  Egan, 484  U.S. at 531.   
“Substantial evidence”  is “more  than  a  scintilla  but less  than  a  preponderance.”   See  v.  
Washington  Metro. Area  Transit Auth., 36  F.3d  375, 380  (4th  Cir. 1994). The  guidelines  
presume  a  nexus or rational connection  between  proven  conduct under any of the  
criteria  listed  therein and  an  applicant’s  security suitability.  See  ISCR Case  No. 95-0611  
at 2 (App. Bd. May 2, 1996).  
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition by substantial 
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it 
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue his [or her] security 
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01 -20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). The burden of 
disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the Government. See ISCR Case No. 
02-31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, 
if they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; see AG ¶ 2(b).  
Analysis  
Security concerns are raised over Applicant’s accumulation of delinquent 
consumer and tax debts, his failure to timely file his federal and state income tax returns 
for tax years 2020 through 2023. His accumulated delinquent debts and his multiple 
tax filing lapses considered together raise trust, reliability, and judgment concerns 
about his current and future ability to manage his finances safely and responsibly. 
Financial concerns  
Applicant’s accrued delinquent debts and multiple tax -filing lapses warrant the 
application of three of the disqualifying conditions (DC) of the fin ancial consideration 
guidelines. DC ¶¶ 19(a), “inability to satisfy debts”; 19 (c), “a history of not meeting 
financial obligations”; and 19(f), “failure to file or fraudulently filing annual Federal, 
state, or local income tax returns, or failure to pay annual Federal, state, or local income 
tax as required,” apply to Applicant’s situation. 
Applicant’s admitted  debts require  no  independent proof to  substantiate  them. 
See  Directive 5220.6  at E3.1.1.14; McCormick on  Evidence  §  262  (6th  ed. 2006). H is  
admitted  debts are  fully documented  and  create  judgment issues as well over the  
management of her finances.  See  ISCR Case No. 03-01059 (App. Bd. Sept. 24, 2004).  
Financial stability in a person cleared to protect classified information is required 
precisely to inspire trust and confidence in the holder of a security clearance that 
entitles the person to access classified information. While the principal concern of a 
security clearance holder’s demonstrated difficulties is vulnerability to coercion and 
influence, judgment and trust concerns are implicit in cases involving delinquent debts. 
6 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
         
      
      
          
         
 
 
        
           
    
          
         
      
   
      
         
    
 
          
       
     
         
 
 
     
         
      
         
         
    
   
 
     
     
       
       
         
      
  
 
            
          
     
          
          
     
Historically, the timing of addressing debt delinquencies and resolving tax-filing 
failures are critical to an assessment of an applicant’s trustworthiness, reliability, and 
good judgment in following rules and guidelines necessary for those seeking access to 
classified information or to holding a sensitive position. See ISCR Case No. 14-06808 at 
3 (App. Bd. Nov. 23. 2016) ; ISCR Case No. 14 -01894 at 5 (A pp. Bd. Aug. 18, 2015); 
ISCR Case No. 14-00221 at 2-5 (App. Bd. June 29, 2016). 
Without any documented evidence of IRS and state approved extensions of the 
times allotted for his filing his tax returns, or good cause demonstrated for his untimely 
filing of tax returns for tax years 20 20-2023, only minimal application of potentially 
available mitigating conditions are available to Applicant. MC ¶¶ 20(b), “the conditions 
that resulted in the financial problem were largely beyond the person’s control (e.g., loss 
of employment, a business downturn, unexpected medical emergency, a death, divorce 
or separation, clear victimization by predatory lending practices, or identity theft), and 
the individual acted responsibly under the circumstances”; and 20(d) “the individual 
initiated and is adhering to a good -faith effort to repay overdue creditors or otherwise 
resolve debts,” have partial application to Applicant’s situation. 
In the past, the Appeal Board has consistently imposed evidentiary burdens on 
applicants to provide documentation corroborating actions taken to resolve financial 
problems, whether the issues relate to back taxes, consumer, medical , or other debts 
and accounts . See ISCR Case No. 19 -02593 at 4 -5 (App. Bd. Oct. 18, 2021); ISCR 
Case No. 19-01599 at 3 (App. Bd. Jan. 20, 2020). 
Addressing his delinquent 2018 federal tax debt (SOR ¶ 1.f) and his five 
consumer debt delinquencies he accumulated between 2018 and 2023, Applicant is 
entitled to credit for his payoffs of his federal tax debt (SOR ¶ 1.f) and payment 
settlements with four of the five listed consumer debts (SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.b and 1.d-1.e) For 
his still outstanding remaining consumer debt (SOR ¶ 1.c) he provided insufficient 
evidence of payment satisfaction to credit him with payment of this debt. 
Whole-person assessment  
Whole-person assessment of Applicant’s clearance eligibility requires 
consideration of whether his history of delinquent debts and multiple tax-filing lapses is 
fully compatible with minimum standards for holding a security clearance. While 
Applicant is entitled to credit for h is work in the defense industry, h is efforts are not 
enough at this time to overcome h is repeated failures or inability to address and resolve 
his still outstanding federal tax returns for tax years 2020 through 2022 Overall 
trustworthiness, reliability, and good judgment have not been established. 
Based on a consideration of all of the facts and circum stances considered in this 
case, it is too soon to make safe predictions that Applicant will be able to undertake the 
necessary reasoned, good -faith efforts to fully mitigate the Government’s financial 
concerns within the foreseeable future. More time is needed for h im to establish the 
requisite levels of stability with his finances to establish his overall eligibility for holding a 
security clearance.I have carefully applied the law, as set forth in Department of Navy v. 
7 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
          
         
    
    
 
 
        
            
 
 
 
                      
              
                         
                                                         
 
            
        
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
__________________________ 
Egan, 484 U.S. 518 (1988) , Exec. Or. 10865 , the Directive, and the AGs , to the facts 
and circumstances in the context of the whole person . I conclude financial 
considerations security concerns are not mitigated. E ligibility for access to classified 
information is denied. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Guideline  F  (FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS): AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.c and  1.g-1.h:  Against Applicant 
For Applicant  Subparagraphs 1.a-1.b and 1.d-1.f:   
     Co nclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance.  Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Roger C. Wesley 
Administrative Judge 
8 