 
 
  
 
  
       DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
     DEFENSE  OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS    
           
             
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
  
 
  
   
 
    
   
  
   
   
    
  
   
 
 
  
  
___________ 
___________ 
In the matter of:  )  
 )  
                )   ISCR Case No. 24-00908  
  )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance   )  
 
A
ppearances  
For Government: Carroll J. Connelley, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
04/29/2025 
Decision  
HARVEY, Mark, Administrative Judge: 
Security concerns arising under Guidelines H (drug involvement and substance 
misuse) and J (criminal conduct) are mitigated. Eligibility for access to classified 
information is granted. 
Statement of the Case  
On October 5, 2023, Applicant completed and signed an Electronic Questionnaire 
for Investigations Processing (e- QIP) or security clearance application (SCA). 
(Government Exhibit (GE) 1) On October 2, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and 
Security Agency (DCSA) issued a statement of reasons (SOR) to Applicant under 
Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry, 
February 20, 1960; Department of Defense ( DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial 
Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (Directive), January 2, 1992; and Security 
Executive Agent (SecEA) Directive 4, establishing in Appendix A the National Security 
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or 
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AGs), effective June 8, 2017. (Hearing Exhibit (HE) 
2) 
The SOR detailed reasons why the DCSA did not find under the Directive that it is 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant or continue a security 
1 
 
 
 
      
 
   
 
     
  
    
   
  
     
 
 
  
 
 
    
      
 
    
      
     
      
     
     
   
   
        
   
 
   
     
   
  
  
 
   
     
     
    
clearance for Applicant and recommended referral to an administrative judge to  
determine whether a clearance should be granted, continued,  denied, or revoked.  
Specifically, the SOR  set forth security concerns arising under Guidelines  H  and J. (HE  
2) On October 22 , 2024, Applicant  provided a response to the SOR and requested a  
hearing. (HE 3) On December 19,  2024, Department Counsel was ready  to proceed.    
On January 15, 2025, the case was assigned to me. On January 21 , 2025, the 
Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a notice, setting the hearing for 
February 25, 2025. (HE 1) The hearing was held as scheduled. 
Department Counsel offered two exhibits into evidence; Applicant offered three 
exhibits into evidence (includes email conveying two exhibits); there were no objections; 
and I admitted all proffered exhibits into evidence. (Transcript (Tr.) 15-17; GE 1 -GE 2; 
Applicant Exhibit (AE) A -AE C) On March 7, 2025, DOHA received a transcript of the 
hearing. Applicant provided one exhibit after his hearing, which was admitted without 
objection (AE D (nine pages)). The record closed on March 31, 2025. (Tr. 10, 45) 
Some details were excluded to protect Applicant’s right to privacy. Specific 
information is available in the cited exhibits and transcript. 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, 1.c, 
and 2.a. (HE 3) His admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Additional findings follow. 
Applicant is a 46- year-old senior program manager who has worked for a 
government contractor for about 18 months. (Tr. 6, 8) In 1996, he graduated from high 
school, and in 2001, he received a bachelor’s degree. (Tr. 6) In 2004, he married, and his 
two daughters are ages 13 and 16. (Tr. 7) He has not served in the military. (Tr. 8) If his 
security clearance is denied, he will be able to retain his employment; however, he will be 
unable to assist his employer on classified contracts. (Tr. 26-27) Applicant has never held 
a security clearance. (Tr. 39) On July 31, 2023, he started the process of applying for a 
security clearance. (Tr. 39) He did not believe he held a sensitive position while working 
for his current employer. (Tr. 40) 
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  and Criminal Conduct  
SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b allege Applicant possessed and used marijuana with varying 
frequency from about January 1993 to about April 2023. SOR ¶ 1. c alleges Applicant 
pleaded guilty to misdemeanor possession of marijuana on or about August 1998. SOR 
¶ 2.a cross alleges the drug involvement and substance misuse security concerns in SOR 
¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, and 1.c under the criminal conduct guideline. 
In 1998, Applicant was a college student. (Tr. 34) He was attending a party , and 
the police were called because of too much noise. (Tr. 35) The police found a pipe 
containing marijuana residue; Applicant admitted it was his pipe, and he was cited for and 
pleaded guilty to possession of marijuana. (Tr. 35; SOR response) 
2 
 
 
 
    
   
   
    
    
 
     
     
     
  
     
     
 
        
  
 
  
     
  
     
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
      
 
    
 
 
    
 
Applicant  used marijuana about once a m onth  from 1993  to  2011, and f rom  
October 2022 to April 27,  2023. (Tr. 28-32; GE 1) He smoked marijuana and c onsumed  
edibles  containing tetrahydrocannabinol (THC). (Tr.  28-29; GE 1)  From about  2011 to  
about  October 2022, he did not use  marijuana because his employer s  prohibited 
marijuana use, and those employers conducted tests to ensure employees were not  using  
illegal drugs. (Tr. 29 -30)  He  mostly obtained the marijuana in the 2022 to 2023 period  
from his  neighbor  (N1). (Tr.  35)  On April 27,  2023,  he consumed a marijuana edible. (Tr.  
33) He discarded the remaining THC edibles. (Tr. 33)  He chose to stop using marijuana 
on April 27,  2023,  because it made him feel  anxious  and paranoid  about the effect  of  
marijuana on his life. (Tr. 33-34)   
Applicant purchased the marijuana edibles at a shop near his residence. (Tr. 43) 
He believed that he consumed a low-dose THC product. (Tr. 44) The label on the gummie 
package reads, delta nine “THC: 0.945 mg/serving dose”; and “CBD: 9.347 mg/serving 
dose.” (AE D at 6) The instructions said, “Start low, go slow. Consume one gummie until 
desired effect is achieved. Results may vary and may be delayed. Typically lasts 2- 8 
hours.” Id. The number of grams each gummie weighs is not on the package. 
Applicant ended his association with neighbor (N1), who provided marijuana to 
him. (Tr. 35) Applicant’s possessions of marijuana were illegal under state law. (Tr. 36) 
Another neighbor (N2), who previously used marijuana with Applicant , has not used 
marijuana in Applicant’s presence for two years. (Tr. 37) Applicant told N2 that if he uses 
marijuana, Applicant cannot be around him. (Tr. 36- 37) Applicant’s spouse is not a 
marijuana user. (Tr. 38) He did not use marijuana for medical reasons. (Tr. 38) 
Applicant provided an affidavit of his intention to abstain from all drug involvement 
and substance misuse. (SOR response) He said: 
I affirm my intent to abstain from all illegal drug involvement, including but 
not limited to the use, possession, distribution, manufacture, or facilitation 
of controlled substances as defined under federal law. Furthermore, I will 
not misuse any prescription or over-the-counter substances. 
I acknowledge that any future involvement in illegal drug activities or 
substance misuse, as defined by applicable federal regulations, shall 
constitute grounds for the revocation of my national security eligibility, 
including any associated security clearances or employment positions 
requiring such eligibility. (AE B) 
Applicant has not received a substance-abuse evaluation or attended substance-
abuse counseling. (Tr. 38) He does not have any marijuana in his residence. (Tr. 43) 
Applicant offered to submit to random drug testing for illegal drugs, and he 
concluded his hearing statement with the following comments: 
I’m ashamed and embarrassed to be [making this statement at his hearing] 
today. I want to reiterate my full understanding of the responsibilities that 
3 
 
 
 
  
  
   
    
 
  
 
  
    
  
  
     
  
       
 
 
  
   
 
 
    
   
    
   
     
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
   
   
     
 
 
     
     
 
 
  
  
   
come with holding a security clearance and my own [un] wavering 
commitment to uphold the highest standards of trust and integrity and 
reliability. My past usage [of marijuana] was a personal decision made 
during a different time in my life. It does not define my character [or] my 
ability to serve in a position of trust. I’ve been completely transparent about 
my history and my actions and since then demonstrated a commitment to a 
lifestyle that aligns with federal regulations and professional expectations. 
I recognize that national security requires individuals who are not only 
competent, but also t rustworthy and responsible. My professional record 
reflects a pattern of sound judgment, ethical conduct, and dedication to 
upholding the values required for this role. I ’ve taken proactive steps to 
ensure that my past decisions have no bearing on my ability to serve 
effectively and honorably. . . . I’ve been voluntarily truthful in reporting the 
information [about my history of marijuana use and ] was truthful and 
complete in responding to any and all questions. I’ve changed my behavior 
to remove myself from situations where marijuana usage has occurred, 
provided the affidavit of my abstinence, and gotten the support of testimony 
from my [supervisor]. (Tr. 40-42) 
Character Evidence  
Applicant’s supervisor since July of 202 3 described him as reliable, responsible, 
and trustworthy. (Tr. 24- 25) Applicant received a drug test when he started working for 
the DOD contractor. (Tr. 22) The drug test was negative for illegal substances. (Tr. 22) 
His employer’s policy prohibits use of illegal drugs; however, his employer does not 
periodically test employees for use of illegal drugs. (Tr. 23) Of the approximately 100 
employees in the company his supervisor works with, Applicant is in the top two. (Tr. 24) 
Applicant received an excellent performance evaluation. (AE C) 
Policies  
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion of the Executive 
Branch in regulating access to information pertaining to national security emphasizing, 
“no one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 
518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual 
is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The President 
has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicant’s eligibility for 
access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly consistent with the 
national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge’s 
4 
 
 
    
 
   
 
  
 
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation 
about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Clearance 
decisions must be “in terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a 
determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 § 7. 
Thus, nothing in this decision should be construed to suggest that it is based, in whole or 
in part, on any express or implied determination about applicant’s allegiance, loyalty, or 
patriotism. It is merely an indication the applicant has not met the strict guidelines the 
President, Secretary of Defense, and Director of National Intelligence have established 
for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 95 -0611 at 2 
(App. Bd. May 2, 1996). 
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial  
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶  E3.1.15. An applicant “has  the ultimate burden of  demonstrating that it  
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant  or continue his [or  her] security  
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01- 20700 at  3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). The burden of  
disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the Government.  See  ISCR Case No. 02-
31154 at  5 (App. Bd.  Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  Egan, 484 U.S. at 531;  see  AG  ¶ 2(b).   
Analysis  
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  and Criminal Conduct  
AG ¶ 24 describes the security concern about drug involvement and substance 
misuse: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of  
prescription an d non-prescription drugs, and  the use of other substances  
that cause physical  or mental impairment or are used in a manner  
5 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
   
   
    
 
  
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual's reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person's ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any “controlled substance” as 
defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in 
this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
AG ¶ 30 describes the security concern about criminal conduct, “Criminal activity 
creates doubt about a person’s judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness. By its very 
nature, it calls into question a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations.” 
AG ¶ 25 provides two drug involvement and substance misuse conditions that 
could raise a security concern and may be disqualifying in this case: “(a) any substance 
misuse (see above definition)”; and “(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance . . .” 
AG ¶ 31 provides t wo criminal conduct conditions that could raise a security 
concern and may be disqualifying in this case: 
(a) a pattern of  m
 inor offenses, any  one of which on its own would be  
unlikely to affect a  national security eligibility decision, but which in  
combination cast doubt on the individual’s judgment, reliability, or  
trustworthiness;  and  
(b) evidence (including, but not limited to, a credible allegation, an 
adm
ission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of  
whether the individual  was formally charged,  prosecuted, or convicted.  
AG ¶
¶ 2 5(a), 25(c), 31(a), and 31(b) are established. Discussion of the 
disqualifying conditions is in the mitigating section infra. 
AG ¶ 26 lists four conditions that could mitigate drug involvement and substance 
misuse security concerns: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or  happened  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur  or does not cast doubt  
on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good judgment;  
(b) the individual acknowledges  hi s or her drug involvement and substance  
misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and  
has established a pattern of  abstinence, including, but not limited to:  
(1)  di sassociation from  drug-using associates  and contacts;  
(2) changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were used;  an d  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
   
   
 
 
    
 
(3) providing a signed statement  of int
 ent to abstain from all drug  
involvement  and substance misuse, acknowledging that any  future  
involvement or misuse is  grounds  for revocation of  national security  
eligibility;  
(c) abuse of prescription drugs was  after  a  severe or prolonged illness  
during which these drugs were prescribed, and abuse has since ended; and  
(d) satisfactory completion of a prescribed drug treatment program,  
incl
uding, but not limited to, rehabilitation and aftercare requirements,  
without recurrence of  abuse, and a favorable prognosis  by  a duly  qualified  
medical professional.  
AG ¶ 32 lists four conditions that could mitigate criminal conduct security concerns:  
(a) s
o much time has  elapse d since the criminal behavior happened, or it  
happened under such unusual circumstances, that it is unlikely to recur and  
does not cast doubt on the individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, or good  
judgment;  
(b) the individual was pressured or coerced into committing the act and  
those
 pressures are no longer present in the person’s life;  
(c) no reliable evidence to support that the individual committed the offense;  
and  
(d) there is evidence of  suc cessful rehabilitation; including, but not limited  
to, the passage of time without recurrence of criminal activity, restitution,  
compliance with the terms of parole or  probation, job training or higher  
education,  good employment record,  or constructive community 
involvement.  
In ISCR Case No. 10- 04641 at 4 (App. Bd.  Sept. 24, 2013), the DOHA Appeal  
Board concisely explained Applicant’s responsibility for proving the applicability of  
mitigating conditions as follows:   
O
nce a concern arises regarding an Applicant’s security clearance 
eligibility, there is a strong presumption against the grant or maintenance of 
a security clearance. See Dorfmont v. Brown, 913 F. 2d 1399, 1401 (9th 
Cir. 1990), cert. denied, 499 U.S. 905 (1991). After the Government 
presents evidence raising security concerns, the burden shifts to the 
applicant to rebut or mitigate those concerns. See Directive ¶ E3.1.15. The 
standard applicable in security clearance decisions is that articulated in 
Egan, supra. “Any doubt concerning personnel being considered for access 
to classified information will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Directive, Enclosure 2, [App. A] ¶ 2(b). 
7 
 
 
    
     
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
     
  
    
  
  
 
   
 
 
  
   
     
 
Applicant admitted that he possessed and used marijuana. Marijuana is listed on 
Schedule I of the Controlled Substances Act. See 21 U.S.C. § 812(c); Drug Enforcement 
Administration listing at https://www.dea.gov/drug-information/drug-scheduling. 
Possession of marijuana is a federal and state criminal offense in the state where 
Applicant resides. 
The SecEA promulgated clarifying guidance concerning marijuana- related issues 
in security clearance adjudications as follows: 
[Federal]  agencies  are instructed that prior recreational  marijuana use by  
an individual may be relevant to adjudications but not determinative. The  
SecEA has  provided direction in [the adjudicative guidelines] to agencies  
that requires  them  to use a “whol e-person concept.” This requires  
adjudicators to carefully weigh a number  of variables in an individual’s life 
to determine whether that individual’s behavior raises a security concern, if  
at all,  and whether  that concern has been mitigated such that the individual  
may now receive a favorable adjudicative determination. Relevant  
mitigations include, but are not limited to,  frequency  of  use and whether the  
individual can demonstrate that future use is  unlikely to recur, including by  
signing an attestation or  other such appropriate mitigation. Additionally, in  
light of the long-standing federal law and policy prohibiting illegal drug use  
while occupying a sensitive position or  holding a security clearance,  
agencies are encouraged to advise prospective national  security workforce  
employees that they should refrain from any future marijuana use upon  
initiation of the national security vetting process, which commences once  
the individual signs the certification contained  in the Standard Form 86 (SF-
86), Questionnaire for National Security Positions.  
Security Executive Agent Clarifying Guidance Concerning Marijuana for Agencies 
Conducting Adjudications of Persons Proposed for Eligibility for Access to Classified 
Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (Dec. 21, 2021) at 2 (quoted in ISCR 
Case No. 20-02974 at 3-4 (App. Bd. Feb. 1, 2022)). 
Applicant used marijuana from about 1993 to about 2011 about once a month. He 
smoked marijuana and consumed THC edibles. He resumed monthly marijuana use from 
about October 2022 to April 27, 2023. He did not hold a security clearance, did not occupy 
a sensitive position, and had not applied for a security clearance. There is no evidence 
he held a “sensitive position” as defined by the DOHA Appeal Board, which has stated: 
For purposes of national security eligibility determinations, the Directive 
defines “sensitive position” as: 
Any position within or in support of an agency in which the 
occupant could bring about, by virtue of the nature of the 
position, a material adverse effect on the national security 
regardless of whether the occupant has access to classified 
8 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
     
 
     
 
  
 
 
     
   
 
   
    
    
       
  
  
 
   
  
 
information, and regardless of whether the occupant is an 
employee, military service member, or contractor. 
SEAD 4, ¶ D.8. We have previously held that this broad language is 
“designed to be inclusive and encompass a wide range of positions, 
including those that require eligibility for access to classified information 
(i.e., a security clearance).” ISCR Case No. 22-01661 at 4 (App. Bd. Sep. 
21, 2023). The term “sensitive position” is not so broad, however, to 
encompass any and all employment with a defense contractor. 
ISCR Case No. 22-02623 at 4 (App. Bd. Jan. 24, 2024). 
The Appeal Board discussed disqualifying condition AG ¶ 25(f) (any illegal drug 
use while granted access to classified information or holding a sensitive position) , and 
noted that AG ¶ 25(f): 
provides  a basis for  disqualification that is distinct from the simple drug use  
the Judge addressed  under AG ¶¶ 25(a) and 25(c). Conduct falling under  
AG ¶ 25(f) reflects a heightened security concern inasmuch as individuals  
who have already been granted access to classified information or who hold  
sensitive positions are held to a higher standard than individuals not  
similarly situated because of  the existing potential to adversely impact  
national security.  See  Security Executive Agent  Directive 3,  Reporting 
Requirements for Personnel with Access to Classified Information or Who  
Hold a Sensitive Position (effective June 12, 2017); ISCR Case No. 22-
01661 at  3 (App.  Bd.  Sep. 21, 2023). It is undisputed that Applicant’s drug  
use occurred after he was  granted a ccess to classified information and/or  
was in a sensitive position.  Although he maintained that he was not  working  
on a classified program at the t  ime of his  drug use,  that  is of  no 
consequence because he was employed in a sensitive position.  See  ISCR 
Case  No. 22-02623 at  3 (App. Bd. Jan. 24,  2024).  
ISCR Case No. 23-01884 at 3 (App. Bd. Nov. 6, 2024). AG ¶ 25(f) was not alleged in the 
SOR and was not established in this case. 
Applicant presented some important mitigating information. H e ended his misuse 
of marijuana on April 27, 2023; he disclosed his drug involvement in his SCA ; and he 
admitted his drug involvement in his SOR response and at his hearing. His misuse of 
drugs in the October 2022 to April 2023 timeframe was not discovered through a 
polygraph test, investigative efforts, or a urinalysis test. He avoids persons and 
environments where illegal drugs are used or likely to be used. He promised not to use 
illegal drugs in the future, and he provided a statement of intent not to use illegal drugs . 
He did not have a drug use disorder diagnosis, and there is no recommendation that he 
receive drug counseling or treatment. 
9 
 
 
   
   
       
 
 
  
      
   
      
        
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
     
     
    
 
    
 
   
     
    
     
   
 
     
  
   
  
       
   
Applicant’s supervisor praised his diligence, trustworthiness, and reliability, and 
rated him as one of the top employees working for the DOD contractor. He received an 
excellent performance evaluation. 
Applicant’s decisions to possess and use illegal drugs are an indication he lacks 
the qualities expected of those with access to national secrets. However, the time between 
Applicant’s most recent involvement with marijuana and his hearing was about 22 months, 
and this period along with his good character evidence, and promise not to use marijuana 
in the future are sufficient under all the circumstances to fully establish AG ¶¶ 26(a), 26(b), 
32(a), and 32(d). His involvement with illegal drugs is unlikely to recur and does not cast 
doubt on his current reliability, trustworthiness, and judgment. Guidelines H and J security 
concerns are mitigated. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all the circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), “[t]he ultimate determination” of whether to grant a security 
clearance “must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines” and the whole-person concept. My comments under Guidelines H and 
J are incorporated in my whole- person analysis. Some of the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) were 
addressed under those guidelines but some warrant additional comment. 
Applicant is a 46- year-old senior program manager who has worked for a 
government contractor for about 18 months. In 2001, he received a bachelor’s degree. 
Applicant has never held a security clearance. On July 31, 2023, he started the process 
of applying for a security clearance. His supervisor lauded his hard work, trustworthiness, 
and reliability. He received an excellent performance evaluation. 
Applicant was a credible witness during his security clearance hearing. He used 
marijuana until April 27, 2023. He ended his drug involvement and substance misuse 
before he completed his SCA, and he did not use illegal drugs while having access to 
classified information or holding a sensitive position. As of his February 25, 2025 hearing, 
he had abstained from all illegal drug involvement for about 22 months. He promised not 
to use illegal drugs in the future. 
10 
 
 
  
 
  
      
     
 
  
  
   
   
 
 
    
   
  
  
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
    
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
______________________ 
It is well settled that once a concern arises regarding an applicant’s security 
clearance eligibility, there is a strong presumption against granting a security clearance. 
See Dorfmont, 913 F. 2d at 1401. “[A] favorable clearance decision means that the record 
discloses no basis for doubt about an applicant’s eligibility for access to classified 
information.”  ISCR Case No. 18-02085 at 7 (App. Bd. Jan. 3, 2020) (citing ISCR Case 
No. 12-00270 at 3 (App. Bd. Jan. 17, 2014)). 
I have carefully applied the law, as set forth in Egan, Exec. Or. 10865, the Directive, 
the AGs, and the Appeal Board’s jurisprudence to the facts and circumstances in the 
context of the whole person. Applicant mitigated drug involvement and substance misuse 
and criminal conduct security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline H:   FOR  APPLICANT   
Subparagraphs  1.a, 1.b, and 1.c:  For  Applicant  
Paragraph 2, Guideline J:  FOR APPLICANT   
Subparagraph 2.b:  For  Applicant  
Conclusion  
Considering all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant Applicant eligibility for 
access to classified information. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Mark Harvey 
Administrative Judge 
11 