 
 
 
                                                              
      
          
           
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
       
                                                             
 
 
  
 
    
  
     
 
 
    
    
   
  
    
 
   
     
 
    
  
    
       
__________ 
__________ 
    DEPARTMENT  OF DEFENSE  
      DEFENSE  OFFICE OF HEARINGS  AND APPEALS  
In  the matter  of:  )  
 )  
                                                            )          ISCR Case No. 24-02429  
  )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance  )  
Appearances  
For Government: Jenny Bayer, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
07/17/2025 
Decision  
WESLEY, ROGER C. Administrative Judge 
Based upon a review of the case file, pleadings, and exhibits, A pplicant did not 
mitigate drug involvement and substance abus e concerns . Eligibility for access to 
classified information or to hold a sensitive position is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On January 8, 2025, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
(DSCA) Consolidated Adjudications Services (CAS) statement of reasons (SOR) to 
Applicant detailing reasons why under the drug involvement and substance abuse 
guideline the D SCA CAS could not make the preliminary affirmative determination of 
eligibility for granting a security clearance, and recommended referral to an 
administrative judge to determine whether a security clearance should be granted, 
continued, denied, or revoked. The action was taken under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 
10865, Safeguarding Cl assified I nformation within Industry (February 20, 1960); 
Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program , DoD Directive 
5220.6 (January 2, 1992) ( Directive); and Security Executive Agent Directive 4, 
establishing in Appendix A the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for 
Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a 
Sensitive Position (AGs), effective June 8, 2017. 
1 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
  
     
   
   
        
 
 
   
     
 
     
   
  
   
      
    
      
 
 
    
  
   
 
 
       
    
 
       
    
       
       
   
 
 
     
   
      
    
    
        
   
       
Applicant responded to the SOR on January 16, 2025, and elected to have his 
case decided on the written recor d in lieu of a hearing. He received the File of Relevant 
Material (FORM), inclusive of the Government’s exhibits (GEs 1- 6), on March 4, 2025, 
and interposed no objections to the materials in the FORM. Applicant did not respond to 
the FORM. The case was assigned to me on July 8, 2025. 
Summary  of Pleadings  
Under Guideline H, Applicant allegedly used marijuana with varying frequency , 
since about September 2017 to about September 2024. 
In Applicant’s response to the SOR, he admitted the allegations with 
explanations. He claimed he used marijuana for recreational purposes and disclosed 
the information on his security clearance application. He further claimed that he ceased 
using marijuana last year (i.e., in 2024) and has no intention of using the substance in 
the future and potentially jeopardize his employment or his obtaining a security 
clearance. He claimed, too, that he is honest and trustworthy and has personal and 
professional references who can attest tohis character and integrity. (GE 2) 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 48-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security 
clearance. The admitted allegations are incorporated and adopted as r elevant and 
material findings. Additional findings follow. 
Background  
Applicant never married and has no children. (GE 3)  H e earned a bachelor’s 
degree in May 2002. (GE 3) He reported no military service. 
Since December 2017, Applicant has worked for his current employer as a senior 
cost accountant. (GE 3) Previously, he worked for other employers in similar accounting 
positions. He reported periods of unemployment between March 2014 and December 
2017 (GEs 2 and 6) He has no prior or current security clearances but is presently 
sponsored by his current employer. (GEs 4 and 5) 
Use of Illegal  Substances  
Over the course of seven years spanning the years between September 2017 
and September 2024, A pplicant used marijuana, a drug federally banned by the 
Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C. § 802, et seq.) (CSA). Marijuana was his drug of 
choice, and the only drug cited in the electronic questionnaires for investigations 
processing (e- QIPs) he completed in 2023 and 2024, respectively, and which he 
confirmed in his personal subject interview (PSI). (GEs 3-4 and 6) According to what he 
wrote in his e -QIPs, he used marijuana several times a year, and he estimated a total 
use of 40 to 50 times between September 2017 and September 20 24. When 
interviewed by a n investigating agent in his PSI , he told the investigator he used 
2 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
    
     
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
     
    
   
  
  
    
      
 
             
 
    
 
  
  
    
 
           
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
marijuana in the 2017-2024 time frame in social situations. While the marijuana he used 
never caused him any problems with law enforcement or at work, “he never felt 
dependent on it and has never purchased or sold it.” (GE 6) He also told the investigator 
that should he not need a security clearance he would possibly continue to use it in the 
future. Basically, he can take the drug or leave it but has stopped using marijuana out of 
respect for the abstention requirements set by the rules and regulations governing the 
obtaining and holding of a security clearance. (GE 6) 
Policies  
By virtue of the jurisdictional principles recognized by the U.S. Supreme Court in 
Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988), “no one has a  right to a 
security clearance.” As Commander in Chief, “the President has the authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual 
is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information. ” Id. at 527. Eligibility for 
access to classified information may only be granted “ upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so. ” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding Classified 
Information within Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Application approvals for a security clearance is predicated upon the a pplicant 
meeting the criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not 
inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these 
guidelines are applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’ s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial , and 
commonsense decision. An administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The AGs list guidelines to be considered by judges in the decision-making process 
covering DOHA cases. These AG guidelines take into account factors that could create a 
potential conflict of interest for the individual applicant, as well as considerations that 
could affect the individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified 
information. The AG guidelines include conditions that could raise a security concern and 
may be disqualifying (disqualifying conditions), if any, and all of the conditions that could 
mitigate security concerns, if any. These guidelines must be considered before deciding 
whether or not a security clearance should be granted, continued, or denied. Although, 
the guidelines do not require judges to place exclusive reliance on the enumerated 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in the guidelines in arriving at a decision. 
In addition to the relevant AGs, judges must take into account the pertinent 
considerations for assessing extenuation and mitigation set forth in ¶ 2(a) of the AGs, 
which are intended to assist the judges in reaching a fair and impartial, commonsense 
decision based on a careful consideration of the pertinent guidelines within the context 
of the whole person. The adjudicative process is designed to examine a sufficient period 
of an applicant’s life to enable predictive judgments to be made about whether the 
applicant is an acceptable security risk. 
3 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
  
     
  
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
When evaluating an applicant’s conduct, the relevant guidelines are to be 
considered together with the following ¶ 2(d) factor s: ( 1) the nature, extent, and 
seriousness of the conduct; (2) the circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include 
knowledgeable participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to which 
participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation and other 
permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation of the conduct; (8) the potential for 
pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the likelihood of continuation or 
recurrence. 
Viewing the issues raised and evidence as a whole, the following individual 
guidelines are pertinent herein: 
  Drug Involvement  
 
            
  
  
   
 
    
  
    
   
    
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
    
 
   
       
   
 
  
     
     
        
 
The C
oncern: The illegal use of controlled substances, to include 
the misuse of prescription drugs, and the use of other substances that 
cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because  such behavior 
may lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, 
rules, and regulations. Controlled substance means any “controlled 
substance” as defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic 
term adopted in this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed 
above. 
Burdens of Proof  
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. 
Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk the a pplicant 
may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. Such decisions 
entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation about potential, rather than 
actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Clearance decisions must be “ in 
terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty 
of the applicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 § 7. See also Exec. Or. 12968 (Aug. 
2, 1995), § 3.1. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in 
the personal or professional history of the a pplicant that may disqualify the applicant 
from being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden 
of establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan, 484 U.S. at 531. 
4 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
     
   
 
    
        
   
    
   
  
         
 
 
     
  
  
 
 
 
       
    
 
   
 
  
   
 
       
   
   
    
  
   
   
  
  
 
   
     
  
 
“Substantial evidence”  is  “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance. ”   
See v. Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4 th  Cir. 1994). The  
guidelines presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any  
of the criteria listed therein and an  applicant’s security suitability.  See  ISCR Case No.  
95-0611 at 2 (App. Bd. May 2,  1996).   
O
nce the Government establishes a disqualifying condition by substantial 
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it 
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue his [or her] security 
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01 -20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). The burden of 
disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the G overnment. See ISCR Case No. 
02-31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, 
if they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; see AG ¶ 2(b). 
Analysis  
Security concerns are raised over Applicant’s lengthy history of marijuana usage 
(inclusive of his recent use while applying for a security clearance) While he has never 
been granted a security clearance, he continues to be sponsored by his current 
employer. 
Drug Involvement concerns  
Applicant’s recurrent use of marijuana over a 10-year period spanning 2013 and 
August 2023 is detailed in his January 2025 PSI. Beginning in 2013, he used marijuana 
on several occasions over the ensuing 10 years (through September 2024) . On the 
strength of the evidence presented, t wo DCs of the AGs for drug involvement apply to 
Applicant’s situation: DC ¶¶ 25(a), ”any substance misuse”; and 25(c), “illegal 
possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation, processing, manufacture, 
purchase, sale, or distribution; or possession of Illegal drugs or drug paraphernalia.” 
To h is credit, Applicant has committed to abstinence while holding a security 
clearance and has abandoned all involvement with marijuana. For almost six months, 
he is credited with remaining abstinent from illegal drugs . However, he has reserved the 
possibility of resuming his marijuana use should he no longer hold a job that requires a 
security clearance. Under these circumstances, none of the potentially mitigating 
conditions covered in the Directive are available to Applicant. See ISCR Case No. 16 -
03460 at 4 (App. Bd. May 24, 2018) ; ISCR Case No. 07- 10804 (App. Bd. June 19, 
2008). 
Whole-person assessment  
Whole-person assessment of Applicant’s clearance eligibility requires 
consideration of whether his history of marijuana use while applying for a security 
clearance) reflect collective judgment lapses incompatible with his holding a security 
clearance 
5 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
   
    
  
  
   
  
 
    
   
   
      
   
 
 
   
      
 
 
From a whole- person perspective, Applicant has not established enough 
independent probative evidence of his overall, trustworthiness, reliability, and good 
judgment required of those who seek eligibility to hold a security clearance or sensitive 
position. While he is deserving of considerable credit for the contributions he has made 
to the defense industry, it is too soon to absolve Applicant of risks of recurrent 
marijuana use. 
I have fully applied the law, as set forth in Department of Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 
518 (1988), Exec. Or. 10865, the Directive, and the AGs, to the facts and circumstances 
in the context of the whole person. I conclude that Applicant’s past use of federally 
banned marijuana is not mitigated. Eligibility for access to classified information is 
denied. 
Formal Findings  
       
 
      
                                   
 
 
 
    
   
   
    
 
 
 
 
   
 
__________________________ 
Form
al findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
     GUIDELINE H (DRUG INVOLVEMENT):     AGAINST APPLI CANT  
      Subparagraph 1.a:      Against   Applicant  
Conc
lusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance.  Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Roger C. Wesley 
Administrative Judge 
6 