 
 
 
  
                                                              
                             
          
           
    
 
    
  
       
     
  
   
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
     
 
   
      
    
  
  
   
  
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
    
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00773 
) 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Erin P. Thompson, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
07/11/2025 
Decision 
LOKEY ANDERSON, Darlene D., Administrative Judge: 
Statement of Case  
On December 5, 2022, Applicant submitted a security clearance application ( e-
QIP). (Item 3.) On May 31, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS ) issued Applicant a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR), detailing security concerns under Guideline F, Financial 
Considerations. (Item 1.)  T he action was taken under Executive Order 10865, 
Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; 
DoD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the Adjudicative Guidelines for 
Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information, effective within the DoD after 
June 8, 2017. 
Applicant responded to the SOR (Answer) on August 15, 2024.  (Item 2.) She 
requested that her case be decided by an administrative judge on the written record. 
Department Counsel submitted the Government’s written case on March 6, 2025. A 
 
 
 
   
  
   
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
  
   
       
 
 
 
  
    
  
 
  
      
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
    
  
 
         
 
 
 
    
  
 
complete copy of the File of Relevant Material (FORM), containing six Items was 
received by Applicant on March 25, 2025.  She was afforded an opportunity to file 
objections and submit material in refutation, extenuation, or mitigation within 30 days of 
receipt of the FORM.  Applicant submitted a response to the FORM dated April 20, 
2025.  Department Counsel had no objection to Applicant’s response, and it was 
marked and admitted into evidence as Applicant’s Exhibit A.  DOHA assigned the case 
to me on July 1, 2025.  Items 1 through 6 will hereinafter be referred to as Government 
Exhibits 1 through 6. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 37 years old.  She is married and has no children.  She has an 
associate’s degree, and no prior military service.  She is employed by a defense 
contractor as an Aircraft Maintenance Technician.  She is seeking to obtain a security 
clearance in connection with her employment.  Applicant began working for her current 
employer in January 2022. 
Guideline F - Financial Considerations  
The Government alleged that Applicant is ineligible for a clearance because she 
made financial decisions that indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which raise questions about her 
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information. 
The SOR alleges that the Applicant failed to file Federal income tax returns for 
tax years 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, and 2022. Applicant admits the 
allegation set forth in the SOR.  (Government Exhibit 2.) 
Applicant explained that since she married her husband in 2015, she has not 
filed her Federal income tax returns.  (Government Exhibit 3.)  She stated that she did 
not know how to file her taxes jointly with her husband, who was already behind in his 
tax return filings.  She was also unsure how to file her returns for the years she had 
missed, and stated that she intended to file them when she learned how to accomplish 
the task.  (Government Exhibit 6.)  Time passed without addressing the issue.  She 
claims that in 2016, she was laid off from her job, which caused some financial 
difficulties with her household bills, and contributed to her difficulties in filing her tax 
returns. (Government Exhibit 4.) She also claims that she then became a dependent 
under her husband, and she assumed that he would catch up with his tax filings.  In any 
event, the situation snowballed over time, and when the SOR was issued on March 6, 
2025, she still had not filed her Federal income tax returns for any of the years in 
question.  Applicant stated that she intends to hire a tax attorney or an accountant to 
prepare her returns.  (Government Exhibit 4.) 
2 
 
 
 
    
 
  
  
     
 
  
      
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
      
   
 
 
   
      
    
  
      
   
 
 
 
   
     
 
 
 
 
       
     
  
    
     
  
 
 
Applicant claims that she has now filed her Federal income tax returns for tax 
years 2017 through 2024.  (Applicant’s Response to the FORM.)  She provided tax 
transcripts for the past 3 years, tax years 2022, 2023, and 2024. She stated that she 
was told by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) representative that her tax returns for all 
previous years have been received, but are still being processed, and that it may take 
anywhere from 8 to 16 weeks to complete their processing.  Applicant stated that she is 
currently waiting to receive documentation from the IRS for penalties and or payments 
that may be due.  If she owes anything, she plans to pay those debts.  (Applicant’s 
Response to FORM.)  Applicant did not address the status of her Federal tax returns for 
tax years 2015 or 2016. 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The 
administrative judge’s over arching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and 
commonsense decision.  The entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of 
variables known as the whole- person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I 
have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical and based on the 
evidence contained in the record. Likewise, I have avoided drawing inferences 
grounded on mere speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, 
or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel .” The 
applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable clearance 
decision. 
3 
 
 
 
    
 
    
  
    
      
    
    
 
   
  
     
    
 
 
 
 
       
 
  
   
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
     
 
 
  
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The g overnment 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to 
potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline F -  Financial Considerations  
The security concern for Financial Considerations is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
Affluence that cannot be explained by known sources of income is also a 
security concern insofar as it may result from criminal activity, including 
espionage. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. One is potentially applicable in this case: 
(f) failure to file or fraudulently filing annual Federal, state, or local income 
tax returns  or failure to pay annual Federal, state,  or local income tax as  
required.  
4 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
   
 
 
    
 
   
   
       
  
 
 
   
   
    
     
     
 
      
     
     
      
   
 
Applicant repeatedly failed to file her Federal income tax returns, for eight years, 
from 2015 to 2024, as required by law.  The evidence is sufficient to raise the above 
disqualifying condition. 
The following mitigating conditions under the Financial Considerations guideline 
are potentially applicable under AG ¶ 20; 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
und
er such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast  
doubt  on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good  
judgment;  
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely  
bey
ond the person’s control (e.g. loss  of employment, a business  
downturn, unexpected medical emergency, or a death, divorce, or  
separation), and the individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;      
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- f aith effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  and  
(g) the individual  ha s made arrangements with the appropriate tax  
authority to file or pay the amount  owed and is in compliance with those  
arrangements.  
Appl
icant provides no reasonable excuse for repeatedly failing to file her Federal 
tax returns over an eight year period from 2015 to 2022.  She procrastinated for eight 
years and ignored her legal responsibility to file her Federal income tax returns. She 
claims that she was laid off from work, but there is no evidence in her e- quip to 
substantiate any lay-off or period of unemployment.  (Government Exhibit 1.)  If she was 
laid off, it was not for such a substantial period that it impacted her ability to file her 
income tax returns. 
In her response to the FORM, Applicant claims that she has now filed the 
Federal income tax returns in question, for tax years 2015 through 2024.  (Applicant’s 
Exhibit A.)  However, even if she has now filed them, she has demonstrated a long 
pattern of irresponsibility, and the mitigation value at this point is minimal.  She is still 
waiting to find out the penalties and interest, or any tax liability that she may owe. She 
has only provided evidence of three tax year filings, namely for tax years 2022, 2023, 
and 2024. She has not carried her burden of proof to establish mitigation of the security 
concerns alleged in the SOR.  Applicant’s inaction for so long reflects a pattern of 
unreliability, untrustworthiness, and poor judgment. None of the mitigation conditions 
set forth above are applicable here. Accordingly, Applicant does not meet the 
requirements to access classified information. 
5 
 
 
 
   
   
    
   
  
 
 
  
 
    
     
 
 
   
    
       
   
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
    
 
      
An Applicant’s failure to comply with Federal and/or State tax laws suggests that 
she has a “problem with complying with well -established governmental rules and 
systems,” and “a person who fails repeatedly to fulfill his or her legal obligations does 
not demonstrate the high degree of good judgment and reliability required of those 
granted access to classified information.”  ISCR Case No. 14- 04437 at 3- 4 (App. Bd. 
Apr. 15, 2016). 
Failure to meet financial obligations may indicate unwillingness to abide by rules 
and regulations, thereby raising questions about an applicant’s ability to protect 
classified information.  ISCR Case No . 17-04110 at 3 (App. Bd. Sep. 26, 2019) citing 
Directive, Encl. 2 App. A Section 18). Guideline F is found against the Applicant. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5)  the  extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of  
rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation  
for the conduct; (8) the potential for  pressure, coercion, exploitation,  or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a security 
clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
relevant facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I conclude Applicant has not 
mitigated the Financial Considerations security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by ¶ E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  Guideline F:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  1
 .a.    Agai
nst Applicant 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
       
      
     
  
                                                
 
 
 
 
 
         
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue Applicant’s national 
security eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information 
is denied. 
Darlene Lokey Anderson 
Administrative Judge 
7 