 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                               
    DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
   DEFENSE  OFFICE OF HEARINGS  AND APPEALS           
          
             
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
          
In  the  matter of:  )  
                                                                      )  
 ____________________                    )          ISCR Case  No. 24-01615  
  )  
Applicant for Security Clearance  )  
Appearances  
For Government: William Miller, Esq, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
02/27/2025 
    Decision  
                                                             
 
 
 
 
       
    
   
 
 
      
      
        
         
          
          
      
     
        
    
       
        
     
 
__________ 
__________ 
WESLEY, ROGER C. Administrative Judge 
Based upon a review of the case file, pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, 
Applicant did not mitigate financial consideration concerns. Eligibility f or access to 
classified information or to hold a sensitive position is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On September 17, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS) issued a statement of reasons (SOR) 
to Applicant detailing reasons why under the financial considerations guideline the 
DCSA CAS could not mak e the preliminary affirmative determination of eligibility for 
granting a security clearance, and recommended referral to an administrative judge to 
determine whether a security clearance should be granted, continued, denied, or 
revoked. The action was taken under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified I nformation within Industry (February 20, 1960 ); Department of Defense 
(DoD) Directive 5220.6 Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
Program, (January 2, 1992) (Directive); and Security Executive Agent Directive 4, 
establishing in Appendix A the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for 
Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a 
Sensitive Position (AGs), effective June 8, 2017. 
1 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
          
           
           
          
          
  
 
   
      
 
 
 
    
       
   
    
 
 
 
      
    
        
         
 
 
 
 
Applicant responded to the SOR on September 30, 2024, and requested that his 
case be resolved on the written record without a hearing . Applicant received the Fie of 
Relevant Material ( FORM) on December 9, 2024 , and elected not to respond to the 
FORM. This case was assigned to me on February 18, 2025 . The Government’s case 
consisted of seven exhibits that were admitted without objection as Items 1-7. 
Summary of Pleadings  
Under Guideline F, Applicant allegedly accumulated eight d elinquent debts 
exceeding $77,000. Allegedly, Applicant’s delinquent debts have not been resolved and 
remain outstanding. 
In  Applicant’s response  to  the  SOR,  she admitted  the  allegations with  
explanations  and  clarifications.  She  claimed  a surplus resulted  from  the  sale of her  
repossessed  vehicle  (covered  by SOR ¶  1.a).  She  also claimed  to  be  working  with  a  
financial  counselor to  resolve  her  debts.  She  further claimed  she  arranged  $200  bi-
monthly payments to  address her debts.  She  claimed, too, that  she  upholds the  highest  
ethical standards while  facing  financial challenges over the  last few years.  She  claimed  
to  understand  the  importance  of maintaining  financial stability in  relation  to  national  
security.  Finally, she  claimed  her dedication  to  ensuring  her financial obligations  are  
met, with the  help and  advice of her counsel as needed.  
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 31-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security 
clearance. Allegations covered in the SOR and admitted by Applicant are incorporated 
and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow. 
Background  
Applicant never married  and  has no  children. (Item  3) Applicant earned  a  
bachelor’s degree  in December 2015  and  a  master’s degree  in December 2018. She   
reported no military service. (Item  3)  
Since January 2022, Applicant has been employed by h er current employer as a 
senior associate. (Item 3) Previously, she worked for other employers in various support 
positions. She reported periods of unemployment in 2020 and between 2013 and 2016. 
(Item 3) She is sponsored for a security clearance by h er current employe r, but has 
never held a security clearance. 
Applicant’s  Finances   
Applicant experienced  periods of hard times  after purchasing  a  home  in March  
2022  that was secured  by a $384,860  home  mortgage. (Item  7) Since  2022, Applicant  
accumulated  eight  delinquent accounts exceeding  $77,000  that  are  reported  as either  
delinquent  or  charged  off. (Items 6-7) The  SOR-listed  delinquent  debts  are  as  follows:  
1.a  (a repossessed  auto  deficiency balance  of $28,397); 1.b  (a  credit card debt of  
$11,666);  1.c (a  credit  card  debt  of  $9,917);  1.d  (a  utility debt  of  $8,248); 1.e  (a  credit  
2 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
     
  
 
      
     
         
               
        
           
      
         
   
 
       
     
       
       
      
       
 
                                                                                                                                                        
 
        
               
         
         
      
         
       
      
 
       
        
     
           
       
      
    
 
      
       
      
     
      
         
         
union debt of $5,237); 1.f (a credit card debt of $4,903); 1.g (a security services debt of 
$3,738); and 1.h (a mortgage deficiency balance of $5,663). (Items 5-7) 
To date, Applicant has made no documented payment progress in addressing 
her debt delinquencies. Under the terms of the debt relief agreement she arranged in 
January 2024, she agreed to bi -weekly payments of $20 1 to cover four of her listed 
SOR delinquent debts, i.e., debts covered by SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.d-1.f. (Items 2 and 4) 
These debts total $30,054 and leave unaddressed her remain ing delinquent accounts 
covered by SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.c, and 1.g -1.h. (Item 4) None of her agreed $201 scheduled 
bi-weekly payments (at odds with her claimed $200 scheduled bi -monthly payments) 
have been documented by Applicant. Nor has she provided any payment or dispute 
documentation for any of her remaining delinquent debts. 
The developed record is unclear as to how much monthly income Applicant 
currently earns. She reported a net monthly income of $6,723, monthly expenses of 
$900, and a monthly mortgage of $2,265 in the personal financial statement she 
completed in February 2024. (Item 4) She omitted any mention of her remaining 
delinquent accounts in her statement and listed a monthly remainder of $3,555, 
ostensibly more than enough to initiate and sustain monthly payments on her debts. 
(item 4)  
Policies  
By virtue of the jurisprudential principles recognized by t he U.S. Supreme Court 
in Department of the Navy v. Egan , 484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988 ), “no one has a ‘right’ to a 
security clearance.” As Commander in Chief, “the President has the authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information. ” Egan. at 527. 
Eligibility for access to classified information may only be granted “upon a finding that it 
is clearly consistent with the national interest to do so. ” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge ’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial , and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The AGs list guidelines to be considered by judges in the decision -making 
process covering DOHA cases. These guideline s take into account factors that could 
create a potential conflict of interest for the individual applicant, as well as 
considerations that could affect the individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified information. These AGs include conditions that could raise a security 
concern and may be disqualifying (disqualifying conditions), if any, and all of the 
conditions that could mitigate security concerns, if any. These guidelines must be 
3 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
          
       
          
 
 
 
 
          
 
 
 
 
                      
considered before deciding whether or not a security clearance should be granted, 
continued, or denied. Although, the guidelines do not require judges to place exclusive 
reliance on the enumerated disqualifying and mitigating conditions in the guidelines in 
arriving at a decision. 
In  addition  to  the  relevant AGs,  judges must take  into  account  the  pertinent  
considerations for assessing  extenuation  and  mitigation  set forth  in  ¶ 2(a) of the  AGs,  
which  are intended  to  assist the  judges in  reaching  a  fair  and  impartial, commonsense  
decision  based  on  a  careful consideration  of  the  pertinent guidelines within the  context  
of the whole person. The adjudicative process is designed to  examine a sufficient period  
of an   applicant’s  life  to  enable  predictive  judgments  to  be  made  about  whether  the  
applicant is an acceptable security risk.  
When  evaluating  an  applicant’s conduct, the  relevant  guidelines are to  be  
considered  together with  the  following  ¶  2(d) factors:  (1) the  nature, extent,  and  
seriousness of the  conduct; (2) the  circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  
knowledgeable participation; (3)  the  frequency and  recency of  the  conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to   which  
participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  and  other 
permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  of the  conduct;  (8) the  potential for  
pressure, coercion,  exploitation, or duress;  and  (9) the  likelihood  of continuation  or  
recurrence.  
Viewing the issues raised and evidence as a whole, the following individual 
guidelines are pertinent herein: 
Financial Considerations  
The  Concern:  Failure  or inability to  live  within one’s means, satisfy debts 
and  meet  financial obligations  may indicate  poor self-control,  lack of  
judgment,  or unwillingness to  abide  by rules or regulations,  all  of  which  
can  raise  questions  about  an  individual’s reliability, trustworthiness and  
ability to  protect  classified  or sensitive information.  Financial distress can  
also be  caused  or exacerbated  by, and  thus can  be  a  possible  indicator of  
other issues of personnel security concern such  as  excessive  gambling,  
mental health  conditions, substance  misuse, or alcohol abuse  or 
dependence. An  individual who  is financially  overextended  is at greater  
risk of having  to  engage  in illegal acts or otherwise questionable acts to  
generate  funds.  .  .  .   AG ¶  18.   
  Burdens of Proof  
 
         
   
 
 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. 
4 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
     
     
       
     
             
         
   
 
     
     
         
          
      
          
            
   
    
 
 
      
       
         
 
 
 
 
 
        
        
Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk the applicant 
may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. Such decisions 
entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation a bout potential, rather than 
actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Clearance decisions must be “in 
terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty 
of the applicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 , Feb. 20, 1960, § 7. See also Exec. 
Or. 12968 (Aug. 2, 1995), § 3.1. 
Initially, the  Government must establish, by  substantial evidence,  conditions in  
the  personal  or professional history of  the  applicant  that  may  disqualify the  applicant  
from  being  eligible  for  access to  classified  information.  The  Government has  the  burden  
of establishing  controverted  facts alleged  in  the  SOR.  See  Egan, 484  U.S. at 531.   
“Substantial evidence”  is “more  than  a  scintilla  but less  than  a  preponderance.”   See  v.  
Washington  Metro. Area  Transit Auth., 36  F.3d  375, 380  (4th  Cir. 1994). The  guidelines  
presume  a  nexus or rational connection  between  proven  conduct under any of the  
criteria  listed  therein and  an  applicant’s  security suitability.  See  ISCR Case  No. 95-0611  
at 2 (App. Bd. May 2, 1996).  
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition by substantial 
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it 
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue his [or her] security 
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01 -20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). The burden of 
disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the Government. See ISCR Case No. 
02-31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, 
if they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; see AG ¶ 2(b).  
Analysis  
Security concerns are raised over Applicant’s accumulation of eight delinquent 
debts (exceeding $77,000) that raise trust, reliability, and judgment concerns about h er 
current and future ability to manage h er finances safely and respon sibly. These 
concerns are addressed below. 
Financial concerns  
Applicant’s accumulated  delinquent debts warrant the  application  of t wo  of the  
disqualifying  conditions (DC)  of  the  financial consideration  guidelines.  DC ¶¶  19(a),  
“inability to  satisfy debts, ” and  19(c), “a history of not meeting   financial obligations” 
apply  to  Applicant’s situation. Her  admitted  debt delinquencies require  no  independent  
proof to  substantiate  them. See  Directive 5220.6  at E3.1.1.14; McCormick on  Evidence  
§  262  (6th  ed. 2006). H er  admitted  debt delinquencies are  fully documented  and  raise   
judgment issues over the  management of h er  finances. See  ISCR  Case  No.  03-01059  
(App. Bd. Sept. 24, 2004).  
Financial stability in a person cleared to protect classified information is required 
precisely to inspire trust and confidence in the holder of a security clearance that 
5 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
       
     
    
 
         
       
        
          
              
 
 
       
         
       
          
      
        
           
       
         
   
 
          
       
         
           
      
  
 
     
      
         
       
         
     
          
 
  
 
      
       
        
         
           
   
 
entitles the person to access classified information. While the principal concern of a 
security clearance holder’s demonstrated difficulties is vulnerability to coercion and 
influence, judgment and trust concerns are implicit in cases involving delinquent debts. 
Historically, the timing of addressing and resolving her eight debt delinquencies 
(SORs ¶¶ 1.a-1.i) are critical to an assessment of an applicant’s trustworthiness, 
reliability, and good judgment in following rules and guidelines necessary for those 
seeking access to classified information or to holding a sensitive position. See ISCR 
Case No. 14-06808 at 3 (App. Bd. Nov. 23. 2016) ; ISCR Case No. 14 -01894 at 5 (App. 
Bd. Aug. 18, 2015); ISCR Case No. 14-00221 at 2-5 (App. Bd. June 29, 2016). 
Without any documented evidence of Applicant’s resolving her current debt 
delinquencies or demonstrated good cause for why these debts have not been resolved 
to date, potentially available mitigating conditions are limited . Only mitigating condition 
(MC) 19(b), “the conditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely beyond 
the person’s control (e.g., loss of employment, a business downturn, unexpected 
medical emergency, a death, divorce or separation, clear victimization by predatory 
lending practices, or identity theft), and the individual ac ted responsibly under the 
circumstances,” has limited application. Her reported periodic unemployment entitles 
her to only partial application of MC ¶ 19(b) without more information on the current 
status of her debts. 
In the past, the Appeal Board has consistently imposed evidentiary burdens on 
applicants to provide documentation corroborating actions taken to resolve financial 
problems, whether the issues relate to back taxes or other debts and accounts . See 
ISCR Case No. 19 -02593 at 4-5 (App. Bd. Oct. 18, 2021); ISCR Case No. 19 -01599 at 
3 (App. Bd. Jan. 20, 2020) . Afforded opportunities to do so, Applicant has provided 
insufficient information on the status of his debts. 
Applicant’s 2024 enrollment in a debt resolution program , while encouraging, 
omits many of her listed SOR debts and is not updated with any of the monthly 
payments called for by her debt resolution agreement. Applicant’s expressed 
commitments to address her debts and stabilize her finances, while welcomed, without 
any follow up, represent no more than promises to resolve h er still outstanding debts 
and are not viable substitutes for a track record of paying debts in a timely manner and 
otherwise acting in a responsible way. See I SCR Case No. 17 -04110 at 4 (App. Bd. 
Sept. 26, 2019) 
Whole-person assessment  
Whole-person assessment of Applicant’s clearance eligibility requires 
consideration of whether her history of accumulated delinquent accounts is fully 
compatible with minimum standards for holding a security clearance. While Applicant is 
entitled to credit for her work in the defense industry, her efforts are not enough at this 
time to overcome her repeated failures or inability to address her debts in a timely way. 
Overall trustworthiness, reliability, and good judgment have not been established. 
6 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
            
          
       
             
         
       
         
     
        
  
 
 
        
            
 
 
 
                                 
 
                                                          
Based on a consideration of all of the facts and circum stances considered in this 
case, it is too soon to make safe predictions that Applicant will be able to undertake 
documented good-faith efforts to mitigate the Government’s financial concerns within 
the foreseeable future. More time is needed for h er to establish the requisite levels of 
stability with h er finances to establish h er overall eligibility for holding a security 
clearance. I have carefully applied the law, as set forth in Department of Navy v. Egan, 
484 U.S. 518 (1988) , Exec. Or. 10865 , the Directive, and the AGs , to the facts and 
circumstances in the context of the whole person . I conclude financial considerations 
security concerns are not mitigated. E ligibility for access to classified information is 
denied. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Guideline  F  (FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS): AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a-1.h:    Against Applicant 
    Conclusion  
 
            
        
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
__________________________ 
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Roger C. Wesley 
Administrative Judge 
7 