              
                                                                                                                    
          
           
             
 
 
 
    
  
               
   
   
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
     
    
   
     
  
 
    
       
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPART
MENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-02377 
) 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Daniel O’Reilley, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
09/29/2025 
Decision 
GLENDON, John Bayard, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant has not mitigated the security concerns raised under Guideline J 
(criminal conduct). National security eligibility for access to classified information is 
denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a Questionnaire for National Security Positions on March 8, 
2024 (Questionnaire). On February 21 , 202 5, the Defense Counterintelligence and 
Security Agency (DCSA) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing 
security concerns under Guideline J. The action was taken under Executive Order 10865, 
Safeguarding Classified Information Within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; 
Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security 
Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the 
adjudicative guidelines (AG) effective within DoD after June 8, 2017. 
Applicant responded to the SOR allegations on March 27, 2025 (Answer). She 
attached 17 documents, which I have marked as Answer Attachments A through Q, and 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
   
     
    
     
   
    
       
   
  
 
 
       
         
   
       
 
    
   
    
 
 
    
     
  
 
       
    
   
        
    
    
   
    
  
  
   
     
she requested a hearing b efore an administrative judge from the Defense Office of 
Hearings Appeals (DOHA). Department Counsel was prepared to proceed on April 25, 
2025. The case was assigned to me on Ju ly 1, 2025. DOHA sent Applicant a Notice of 
Hearing on July 17, 2025, scheduling the case to be heard via Microsoft Teams video 
teleconference on August 11, 2025. 
I convened the hearing as scheduled. Department Counsel offered four documents 
marked as Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 5. Applicant testified but did not offer any 
documentary evidence aside from Answer Attachments A through Q. I kept the record 
open until August 18, 2025, to give Applicant and Department Counsel the opportunity to 
supplement the record. On August 12, 2025, Applic ant submitted a nine-page exhibit, 
which I marked as Post -Hearing Exhibit R. Department Counsel made no further 
submission. The record closed on August 18, 2025. All exhibits are admitted into the 
record without objection. DOHA received the transcript of the hearing (Tr.) on August 18, 
2025. (Tr. at 13.) 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 37 years old. She received a bachelor’s degree in 2012. She has 
worked for her current employer as a manager since June 2022. She also works part time 
for a private company. She was granted national security eligibility in 2023. She has never 
married and has no children. (Tr. at 21-25; GE 1 at 5, 11-13, 28, 49.) 
The Government alleged in the SOR that Applicant is ineligible for a security 
clearance due to her criminal conduct . I find the following facts as set forth in the 
pleadings, developed at the hearing, and detailed in the documentary record. 
Paragraph 1, Guideline  J  (Criminal Conduct)  
Under this guideline, the Government alleged that Applicant has been arrested five 
times since December 2012 and charged with criminal conduct. In her Answer, Applicant 
admitted each of the five allegations and provided additional information. 
SOR ¶ 1.a. December 2012 Arrest and Charges. In December 2012, Applicant 
was arrested and charged with possession of cocaine, possession of a controlled 
substance, and promoting prison contraband. At the time of Applicant’s arrest, her friend 
had parked her car in an alley and went inside a nearby house of the friend’s relative. 
Applicant was seated in the front passenger seat. A police car stopped behind the car. 
Applicant moved from the passenger side to the driver’s side so she could move the car 
out of the alley while her friend was inside. She made an illegal turn and t he police 
stopped the car. The police then searched the car and found a plastic bag with cocaine 
residue. The police then searched Applicant and arrested her. Applicant had two Lortab 
pills in her purse, but the police did not find them when they searched her . Lortab is a 
Schedule II controlled substance containing hydrocodone. She was taken to the local jail 
and booked. At that time, the police found the Lortabs in her purse. At the DOHA hearing, 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
     
 
       
    
  
     
    
     
 
 
      
  
   
    
   
  
    
        
   
   
   
 
      
   
     
 
       
    
       
   
    
    
   
   
       
          
 
       
       
     
  
    
  
Applicant claimed that this prescription drug was legally prescribed for a friend who gave 
her the drug for headaches, and that she used the pills for a brief period. (Answer at 1, 
4; Tr. at 30-35; GE 2 at 12-13; GE 3 at 11.) 
The court ordered that Applicant participate in a pre-trial diversion program to avoid 
further prosecution. The program involved an eight-week period of treatment, and six 
months of supervised probation followed by up to two years of unsupervised probation. 
Applicant completed the treatment program in June 2013. On March 27, 2014, the court 
entered an order to nolle prosequi the charges on the motion of the state prosecutor and 
ordered the charges to be expunged. (Answer at 4; Answer Attachments A through E; GE 
3 at 31.) 
SOR ¶ 1.b. July 2019 Arrest and Charge. In December 2018, Applicant worked 
as a cashier in a department store for about six months. After her employment ended, the 
employer wrote her a letter advising she owed $570 in restitution. Applicant admitted at 
the DOHA hearing that she had been discounting merchandise bought by family and 
friends. She claimed that she repaid the money after receiving the letter. The employer 
also filed a complaint against her for unauthorized discounts and price adjustments 
totaling over $500. The police obtained a warrant for Applicant’s arrest on a charge of 
theft of property, a felony. In July 2019, she was stopped by the police for a minor traffic 
offense and was arrested when the police discovered the outstanding warrant. She 
testified she was unaware of the existence of the warrant at the time of her arrest. (Answer 
at 1, 5; Tr. at 35-43; GE 1 at 36-37.) 
Applicant was charged with felony theft of property. She completed a p re-trial 
intervention program. When she completed the program, the court nolle prossed the 
charges and ordered that they be expunged. (Answer Attachment F and G.) 
SOR ¶ 1.c. June 2021 Arrest and Charge. In July 2019, Applicant was arrested 
and charged with driving under the influence of alcohol (DUI). Her blood alcohol content 
(BAC) was 0.19. To resolve the charge, the court ordered that s he complete a DUI 
diversion program consisting of 12 hours of classes. She was also required to attend four 
Alcoholics Anonymous ( AA) sessions and install an ignition interlock device on her car 
for one year. The court placed her on probation for two years, which was terminated early 
when she completed the other terms of the diversion program. She continued with the AA 
meetings after she completed the four required sessions to help her “well-being.” Again, 
the charge was nolle prossed and her criminal record was expunged in 2022. (Answer 
at 1, 5; Tr. at 43-48; Answer Attachments at H; GE 1 at 37-38, 45-46; GE 3 at 29.) 
SOR ¶ 1.d. May 2023 Arrest and Charges. In May 2023, Applicant was indicted 
on three counts of felony false statement to a federal agency. At the suggestion of her tax 
advisor, she had submitted false documents in 2021 in support of claims under the 
Federal Paycheck Protection Plan, which was intended for persons who suffered loss es 
of income to their businesses due to the COVID-19 pandemic. She had just started a new 
business in 2020. She received approximately $52,000 in payments from the Federal 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
    
    
   
   
    
       
    
     
 
    
     
     
       
      
 
 
   
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
    
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
Government  in 2021.  She blames  her  tax advisor  for  preparing false documents for  her  
to sign.  She plead ed  guilty to one of the three counts in November 2023.  She was  
required to serve six-months  of “at home”  detention, which allowed her to go to work and  
attend doctor  appointments.  She was also required to serve three years  on probation.  
Applicant  paid the required restitution in full  and was released from probation in January  
2025, notwithstanding the state criminal charges against  Applicant,  as set forth in SOR ¶ 
1.e, below. (Answer  at 2, 6-7; Tr. at 49-63;  Answer Attachments  J  through L;  GE 4 at  24-
27, 28-33.)   
SOR ¶ 1.e. November 2023 Arrest and Charges. In November 2023, the same 
month she pleaded guilty to the charge above (SOR ¶ 1.d), Applicant and others were 
driving in a car near a state correctional institute. Applicant testified that she thought they 
were going to a casino that was nearby but they took a detour. The vehicle stopped near 
a prison and one of the other passengers exited the car. Applicant claimed that she was 
“dozing off” before the car stopped, not knowing what was going on. Shortly thereafter, 
the police arrived and arrested Applicant . She testified that she was driving to a casino 
with a female family member and two men. She understands that the contraband involved 
was cellphones, knives, charging blocks and cords, and ear buds. Everyone in the car 
was arrested. The police charged Applicant with three felonies, promoting prison 
contraband, intent to deliver a cellular phone to an inmate, and criminal trespass. On April 
29, 2024, Applicant was indicted by a state grand jury and charged with these offenses. 
She “thinks” her relative in the car was also indicted. She is unsure whether the two men 
in the car with her were indicted. On May 7, 2024, Applicant pleaded not guilty to the 
charges. A December 2024 trial date has been continued to a future, unscheduled date. 
(Answer at 2, 7; Tr. at 65-83; Answer Attachments M and O; GE1 at 40-42; GE 4 at 1-5.) 
Whole  Person  
Applicant presented four character reference letters, two from defense attorneys 
who have represented her in two of her criminal cases, one from her parttime employer, 
and one from her church pastor and counselor. Each letter supported Applicant’s case 
for her eligibility for a security clearance. The lawyer in her pending case noted that she 
has not been convicted of any crime in that case and is therefore presumed to be innocent 
of the charges against her. The lawyer who represented her in the federal fraud 
prosecution commented that she worked with the Government to help it prosecute others 
involved in the fraud. Her employer’s representative praised Applicant for her reliability 
and commitment to change. Her pastor and her counselor have known Applicant for more 
than 20 years and praise her reliability and active involvement in their church. (AE N 
through AE Q.) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for national security eligibility, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines (AG) list 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
  
  
   
    
 
  
  
  
  
    
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
potentially disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in 
evaluating an applicant’s national security eligibility. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. The entire 
process is a conscientious scrutiny of applicable guidelines in the context of a number of 
variables known as the whole- person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires, “Any doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. I have not drawn inferences based on mere speculation or 
conjecture. 
Directive ¶ E3.1.14 requires the Government to present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, “The applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel, and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable clearance decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants national 
security eligibility. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk the 
applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or safeguard classifi ed 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as 
to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified or sensitive information. 
Finally, as emphasized in Section 7 of Executive Order 10865, “Any determination under 
this order adverse to an applicant shall be a determination in terms of the national interest 
and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” 
See also Executive Order 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information.) 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
    
    
 
 
  
     
     
 
     
   
 
  
   
   
  
  
 
      
       
     
     
  
    
     
 
  
    
 
Analysis  
Paragraph 1, Guideline J  (Criminal Conduct)  
The security concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 30 as follows: 
Criminal activity creates doubt  about a person’s judgment, reliability,  and 
trustworthiness. By its  very nature, it  calls into question a person’s  ability  
or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations.  
AG ¶ 31 describes four conditions that could raise security concerns. The following 
condition has possible application to the facts of this case and may be disqualifying: 
(b) evidence (including, but not limited to, a credible allegation, an 
admission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of  
whether the individual  was formally charged,  prosecuted, or convicted.   
The record evidence establishes the above potentially disqualifying condition. 
Accordingly, the burden shifts to Applicant to rebut, extenuate, or mitigate the security 
concerns raised by her criminal conduct. 
AG ¶ 32 sets out four mitigating conditions under Guideline J. The following two 
conditions have possible application to the facts in this case: 
(a) so much t ime has elapsed since the criminal behavior  hap
 pened, or it  
happened under such unusual  circumstances, that it is unlikely to recur and  
does not cast doubt on the individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, or good  
judgment; and  
(d) ther
e is evidence of successful rehabilitation; including, but not limited to, 
the passage of time without recurrence of criminal activity, rest itution, 
compliance with the terms of parole or probation, job training or higher 
education, good employment record, or constructive community involvement. 
Neither mitigating condition applies. Applicant committed a serious felony offense 
in 2021 and was convicted in 2023 for her fraudulent activities during the pandemic . A 
grand jury has found probable cause to indict her for three additional serious felony 
charges arising out of her conduct in November 2023. Those charges remain pending, 
Insufficient time has passed. Applicant’s criminal history during the period 2012 to 2023 
casts serious doubts about her reliability, trustworthiness , and judgment. Moreover, it is 
far to soon to determine that she has shown successful rehabilitation. She has not taken 
responsibility for her federal fraud crimes, and her denials of any involvement in the 
November 2023 crimes at the state prison do not begin to establish mitigation under AG 
¶ 32(d). 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
  
 
   
   
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
 
   
 
     
  
     
    
   
   
     
   
    
  
    
 
 
 
      
  
 
   
 
     
 
  
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for national security eligibility by considering the totality of the 
applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should 
consider the nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant national security eligibility 
must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration of the 
guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the above whole-person factors and the potentially disqualifying and 
mitigating conditions in light of all pertinent facts and circumstances surrounding this 
case. I have considered the views of Applicant’s character witnesses. I have weighed the 
fact that Applicant has complied with all of the court -ordered terms required for the 
dispositions of the criminal proceedings described above in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.d 
However, Applicant’s criminal conduct during the period 2012 through 2023 evidences a 
serious pattern of disreg ard for the behavior restrictions imposed by criminal laws . 
Applicant’s federal fraud crimes discussed under SOR ¶ 1.d shows a significant amount 
of dishonesty and poor judgment as does the felony theft ch arge against her for her 
actions as a department store cashier (SOR ¶ 1.b). She may or may not be convicted of 
her most recent charges. The fact that she was indicted by a grand jury on three felonies 
is substantial evidence of recent criminal conduct. Overall, the record evidence leaves 
me with serious questions and doubts as to Applicant’s suitability for national security 
eligibility and a security clearance. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by ¶ E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  Guideline J:  AGAINST  APPL
 ICANT  
Subparagraphs 1.a  t hrough 1.e: Against Applicant  
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
   
 
                                                  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant national security eligibility. 
Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
JOHN BAYARD GLENDON 
Administrative Judge 
8 