 
 
  
 
  
   
           
  
 
 
    
  
       
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
 
      
     
   
    
 
  
  
   
  
    
   
 
______________ 
______________ 
       DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
    DEFENSE  OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS  
           
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-01784 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: John C. Lynch, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
08/06/2025 
Decision 
Dorsey, Benjamin R., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not mitigate the drug involvement and substance misuse security 
concerns. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
On January 2, 2025, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline H, drug 
involvement and substance misuse. On January 7, 2025, Applicant responded to the SOR 
and requested a decision based on the written record in lieu of a hearing. 
The Government’s written case was submitted on February 25, 2025. A complete 
copy of the file of relevant material (FORM) was provided to Applicant, who was given 30 
days to file objections and submit material to refute, extenuate, or mitigate the security 
concerns. Applicant received the FORM on March 10, 2025, but he did not respond to it. 
The case was assigned to me on June 18, 2025. The Government exhibits included in 
the FORM (Items 1-5) are admitted in evidence without objection. 
 
 
 
   
   
  
   
  
  
    
 
    
   
    
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
 
   
 
   
   
   
  
   
 
   
 
    
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
 
   
 
     
 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 29- year-old who is being sponsored for a security clearance by a 
government contractor for whom he has worked since November 2021. He earned a high 
school diploma in 2014 and an associate degree in 2023. He has not been married, but 
he has lived with a cohabitant since January 2022. He has no children. He has lived with 
his parents since May 2021. (Items 3, 5) 
From about September 2017 to November 2024, Applicant used marijuana with 
varying frequency. He used marijuana from November 2023 until November 2024 after 
he completed a security clearance application (SCA) on February 4, 2023. He purchased 
marijuana from September 2016 through September 2020, with varying frequency. In the 
SCA, he divulged his marijuana use up to the date of the SCA and claimed that he used 
it to alleviate chronic stomach issues and nausea. He also claimed that he stopped using 
marijuana a few months prior to completing the SCA because he had been asked to 
undergo the clearance process by his employer. During his August 3, 2023 security 
interview (August 2023 SI), which he has authenticated, he confirmed his marijuana use, 
but told the DOD investigator that he had used it in social settings at parties. During the 
August 2023 SI, he claimed he had no intent to use marijuana again and stated that he 
had not used it since September 2022. (Items 3, 5) 
On December 4, 2023, Applicant had another security interview (December 2023 
SI), which he also authenticated. During the December 2023 SI, he admitted having 
ingested marijuana edibles at home with his girlfriend in November 2023. He obtained the 
marijuana edibles from his father’s medical marijuana supply. He acknowledged that at 
some point he wanted to obtain a medical marijuana card from State A, but he decided 
against it. He decided to resume using marijuana at that time because he was 
discouraged about his prospects of being granted a security clearance. He told the DOD 
investigator that he regretted using marijuana again, and that he had no intention to use 
it in the future if he was granted a security clearance. (Item 5) 
On November 21, 2024, Applicant answered interrogatories that the Government 
sent to him earlier that month. In his interrogatory responses, he admitted that he had 
ingested marijuana weekly from August 2024 until November 14, 2024. His November 
14, 2024 marijuana use occurred the day after he received the Government’s 
interrogatories. He claimed that he began using it again as he was feeling anxious 
because he was working and going to school. He said that he was using it to help him 
sleep. He again claimed that he had no intent to use marijuana in the future if he obtained 
a clearance and if it remained illegal. Available evidence shows that his close friend, live-
in girlfriend, and father have used marijuana. (Item 5) 
In his response to the SOR, Applicant admitted all the SOR allegations without 
additional comment. His admissions are established as findings of fact. Possession of 
marijuana (and therefore its use) was and continues to be illegal pursuant to federal law. 
Recreational marijuana use is illegal in the law of the state where Applicant resides. There 
is no evidence that he has attended or completed a drug treatment program. (Item 2, 5) 
2 
 
 
 
   
      
    
    
 
 
    
  
  
      
   
 
 
   
   
    
  
      
      
 
 
 
   
     
 
      
     
  
    
     
 
    
   
   
  
    
     
    
    
 
   
 
    
  
 
Policies  
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines (AG ), which became 
effective on June 8, 2017. 
When evaluating an applicant ’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
3 
 
 
 
 
       
   
  
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
      
 
  
   
 
   
   
  
   
  
 
   
  
 
    
 
  
   
  
  
Analysis  
Guideline H, Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse  
The security concern for drug involvement and substance misuse is set out in AG 
¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any “controlled substance” as 
defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in 
this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
On  October 25, 2014, the Director of National Intelligence (the Security  Executive  
Agent (SecEA))  issued DNI Memorandum ES 2014-00674, “Adherence to Federal  Laws  
Prohibiting M arijuana Use,” which  states:  
[C]hanges to state laws and the laws of the District of Columbia pertaining 
to marijuana use do not alter the existing National Security Adjudicative 
Guidelines . . . . An individual’s disregard of federal law pertaining to the 
use, sale, or manufacture of marijuana remains adjudicatively relevant in 
national security determinations. As always, adjudicative authorities are 
expected to evaluate claimed or developed use of, or involvement with, 
marijuana using the current adjudicative criteria. The adjudicative authority 
must determine if the use of, or involvement with, marijuana raises 
questions about the individual’s judgment, reliability, trustworthiness, and 
willingness to comply with law, rules, and regulations, including federal 
laws, when making eligibility decisions of persons proposed for, or 
occupying, sensitive national security positions. 
On December 21, 2021, the SecEA promulgated clarifying guidance concerning 
marijuana-related issues in security clearance adjudications (Security Executive Agent 
Clarifying Guidance Concerning Marijuana for Agencies Conducting Adjudications of 
Persons Proposed for Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold 
a Sensitive Position). It states in pertinent part: 
[Federal] agencies are instructed that prior recreational marijuana use by 
an individual may be relevant to adjudications but not determinative. The 
SecEA has provided direction in [the adjudicative guidelines] to agenci es 
that requires them to use a “ whole-person concept .” This requires 
adjudicators to carefully weigh a number of variables in an individual’ s life 
to determine whether that individual’s behavior raises a security concern, if 
4 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
       
  
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
at all,  and whether  that concern has been mitigated such that the individual  
may now receive a favorable adjudicative determination.  Relevant  
mitigations include, but are not limited to,  frequency  of  use and whether the  
individual can demonstrate that future use is  unlikely to recur, including by  
signing an attestation or other such appropriate mitigation. Additionally, in  
light of the  long-standing federal law  and policy prohibiting illegal drug use  
while occupying a sensitive pos ition or  holding a security clearance,  
agencies are encouraged to advise prospective national  security workforce  
employees that they should refrain from any future marijuana use upon  
initiation  of the national  security vetting process, which commences once  
the individual signs the certification contained  in the Standard Form  86 (SF-
86),  Questionnaire for National Security Positions.    
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 25. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) any substance misuse (see above definition); and  
(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation,  
proc
essing,  manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession of  
drug paraphernalia.  
Appell
ant used marijuana with varying frequency from September 2019 until 
November 2024. He purchased marijuana with varying frequency from September 2016 
until September 2020. By using marijuana, he would have had to possess it. AG ¶¶ 25(a) 
and 25(c) are established. 
AG ¶ 26 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. The following 
are potentially applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or ha ppened  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur  or does not cast doubt  
on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment; and  
(b) the individual acknowledges  his  or her drug involvement and substance  
misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and  
has established a pattern of  abstinence, including, but not limited to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-usi ng associates and contacts;  
(2) changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were  
used;
 and  
(3) providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all  
drug i
nvolvement  and  substance misuse, acknowledging that  
any future involvement or misuse is grounds  for revocation of  
national security eligibility.  
5 
 
 
 
      
   
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  
     
  
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
    
     
 
 
None of the mitigating conditions are applicable. It has only been about eight 
months since Applicant last used marijuana. This relatively short period of time pales in 
comparison to the length of time that he was involved with marijuana. In the SCA, he 
provided evidence that he knew using marijuana was incompatible with holding a security 
clearance when he wrote that he had stopped using marijuana after finding out he would 
be applying for a security clearance. While he was using marijuana, there is evidence that 
he knew marijuana use was illegal because he claimed that he would discontinue use 
until it became legal. He resumed using marijuana on multiple occasions after making 
statements in the SCA or during security interviews that he would stop. For these reasons, 
I do not find that his illegal drug use is unlikely to recur, and I find that it casts doubt on 
his current reliability, trustworthiness, and good judgment. 
The short period of time that Applicant has stopped using marijuana, and his 
willingness to continue using it after saying he would stop show that he has not 
established a pattern of abstinence. Moreover, he still associates with others who have 
used marijuana, such as his friend, girlfriend, and father, and he lives in a home where 
he and others have used it. I find that he has not mitigated the drug involvement and 
substance misuse security concerns. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. I considered the potentially 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances 
surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under Guideline H in my whole-
person analysis. 
Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts about 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. I conclude he did not mitigate 
the drug involvement and substance misuse security concerns. 
6 
 
 
 
     
    
 
 
 
 
 
       
      
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline H:   AGAINST APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.c:  Against Applicant  
Conclusion  
It is
 not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for 
a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Benjamin R. Dorsey 
Administrative Judge 
7 