 
 
                                                              
                         
          
           
             
 
 
    
  
        
      
   
 
   
 
     
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
   
     
 
   
     
    
       
    
    
   
  
 
  
    
  
 
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 24-01638 
Appearances  
For Government: Mark D. Lawton, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
12/09/2025 
Decision 
BORGSTROM, Eric H., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant mitigated the drug involvement, criminal conduct, and personal conduct 
security concerns. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Statement  of the Case  
On November 26, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
(DCSA) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns 
under Guideline H (drug involvement and substance misuse) and Guideline J (criminal 
conduct). The DCSA acted under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified 
Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of Defense 
(DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) 
implemented by the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
By emails dated January 2, 2025 and January 3, 2025, Applicant responded to the 
SOR. He admitted all five allegations , and he attached a list of references and five 
character-reference letters. He requested a hearing before a Defense Office of Hearings 
and Appeals (DOHA) administrative judge. (Answer) 
 
 
  
 
    
    
    
       
    
    
   
  
 
 
   
    
   
  
 
 
    
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
 
  
    
    
   
 
 
 
On February 28, 2025, the Government was ready to proceed to a hearing. I was 
assigned this case on June 3, 2025. On July 16, 2025 , a notice was issued scheduling 
the hearing for August 21, 2025, by video teleconference. The hearing proceeded as 
scheduled. The Government proffered five evidentiary exhibits, which I admitted as 
Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 5, without objection. Applicant and four witnesses 
testified. Applicant submitted two exhibits, which I admitted as Applicant Exhibits (AE) A 
and B, without objection. I held the record open until September 25, 2025, to give 
Applicant the opportunity to provide any other additional evidence and to further respond 
to Department Counsel’s amendment to the SOR, infra. I received the transcript (Tr.) on 
August 29, 2025. 
On September 24, 2025, Applicant emailed four additional exhibits. I admitted the 
email and four attachments as AE C through G, without objection. The record closed on 
September 24, 2025. My decision was delayed when all administrative judges were 
furloughed from October 1 through November 12, 2025, during a federal government 
shutdown due to a lapse in federal funding. 
Amendment to the SOR  
At the outset of the hearing, Department Counsel moved to amend the SOR , 
pursuant to Paragraph E3.1.17 of the Directive, to cross-allege the conduct alleged in 
SOR ¶ 2.b. (the adulteration of the urine sample) under Guideline E (personal conduct). 
Applicant had notice that this conduct would be at issue for his clearance determination, 
and he had an opportunity both at hearing and in his post-hearing submissions to respond 
in the context of Guideline E. Following the conclusion of the hearing, Department 
Counsel submitted the motion to amend (Amendment to the SOR) in writing. Applicant 
did not object to the motion to amend, either at hearing or in his post-hearing submissions. 
He was provided 30 days to submit any response and to supplement the evidentiary 
record. (Tr. 18-23) 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 32 years old. He graduated from high school in December 2010 and 
attended some college courses from August 2014 to November 2016. He married in July 
2025, and he resides with his wife and their four-year-old child. (GE 1; Tr. 89) 
From February  2012 to November  2016,  Applicant served part  time in the Air Force  
Reserve, from which he was honorably  discharged.  He was granted a secret clearance  
in  about  April 20 12. From November 2016 to about July  2023, he served in the Air  
National Guard  (ANG), from which he was honorably  discharged  as  a staff sergeant (E-
5). He initially served in an Active-Guard-Reserve (AGR) full-time status for  a few months  
before transitioning to a full-time  federal technician role and serving part time in the ANG. 
From March 2017 to October 2023,  he  was employed full time as a f ederal technician  
with the Air National  Guard.  Since October 2023, he has been employed full time as  a  
technician with a DOD contractor.  (GE 1, GE 5; Tr. 90-92)  
2 
 
 
     
 
 
     
   
  
    
    
     
   
    
  
 
 
  
   
   
  
   
  
      
   
 
  
   
 
   
     
  
    
    
 
   
   
   
  
    
   
  
    
 
     
  
 
 
Experiencing the stressors from work and as a new parent, Applicant used 
products containing tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) or cannabidiol (CBD) for approximately 
six weeks between mid- September 2022 and November 5, 2022. At the hearing, he 
explained that he sought an alternative to alcohol to relax. He used THC – ingested as 
an edible or inhaled through vape fluid – and consumed CBD drinks. The CBD drinks 
were purchased at local retail establishments, and the THC-infused items were provided 
by or purchased from a friend. Applicant estimated that he used these products about 
three to five times a week or 25 times in all. He testified that he had used marijuana in 
high school (prior to December 2010) but had not used any illegal drugs between 
December 2010 and September 2022 and had not used any illegal drugs since November 
5, 2022. He was aware that any THC use was prohibited as an ANG member, federal 
technician, and a clearance holder, and he was aware that CBD use, though legal, may 
cause an individual to test positive for THC. (Answer; GE 1; Tr. 92-96, 103-107) 
On November 5, 2022, Applicant reported for his monthly drill obligation, and he 
was required to participate in a random drug test. Prior to reporting for drill, he had 
purchased “synthetic urine” from a brick -and-mortar store in case he was required to 
participate in a drug test. During testing, he had hidden the small bottle of synthetic urine 
in his waistband. Believing the test observer would discover him using the synthetic urine, 
he aborted his attempt to adulterate his urine sample and supplied his own urine for the 
test. Upon leaving the restroom, he dropped the cap of the bottle of synthetic urine, as 
was witnessed by the test observer. (Answer; GE 2-4; Tr. 95-98, 110-111) 
The observer notified his super visor shortly thereafter, and Applicant submitted a 
statement on November 5, 2022, admitting he “was caught attempting to provide a fake 
urine sample.” He further admitted that he had intended to use a small vial of fake urine 
to adulterate the drug urinalysis due to his fear of testing positive for THC. The records 
also included a statement from the urinalysis observer, who witnessed Applicant drop the 
red cap of a bottle or container as he was providing a urine sample. Applicant tested 
positive for THC-8 and THC-9 from his sample collected on November 5, 2022. When he 
reported for drill in December 2022, he was formally confronted about the positive drug 
test, and he admitted having used THC. (GE 2-3; Tr. 98-99) 
In January 2023, Applicant was charged with two offenses under the Uniform Code 
of Military Justice (UCMJ). Specifically, he was charged with wrongful use of a controlled 
substance (Article 112a) and failure to obey order or regulation (Article 92). The Article 
92 specification was based on Applicant’s attempt to provide an “improper urine sample 
that did not come directly from [his] body.” He pled guilty and was reduced in rank for 
these offenses. As a result of his failed urinalysis, a separation board was convened; 
however, Applicant was granted a conditional waiver and was honorably discharged from 
the ANG in July 2023. (Answer; GE 1-3; Tr. 99-100) 
From February 14, 2023 to April 20, 2023, Applicant voluntarily participated in a 
substance abuse intensive outpatient program (IOP) that consisted of individual 
counseling once a week, group counseling three times a week, and three Alcoholics 
Anonymous (AA) meetings a week. The IOP clinical director confirmed that Applicant 
3 
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
 
 
    
  
   
  
  
   
   
 
   
 
  
  
  
    
    
   
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
passed the weekly drug screenings and “was compliant in all aspects of treatment.” The 
discharge plan recommended that he continue with individual counseling, family 
counseling, attend recovery-support groups, and participate in a continuing care group. 
Applicant testified that he was actively engaged in individual counseling and has found it 
very helpful. He also has relied upon his family and friends for support. He has attended 
some AA meetings and has kept in contact with AA members whom he met through those 
meetings. (AE A, AE D; Tr. 100-101, 119) 
On July 24, 2023, Applicant submitted a statement concerning his marijuana use 
and failed drug urinalysis as part of the separation proceedings. He admitted that he had 
been escorted to security forces on December 3, 2022, due to his failed urinalysis. In his 
statement, he admitted that he had consumed THC gummies and from a vape pen for 
“two weeks” prior to his November 5, 2022 urinalysis. He averred that he had not used 
marijuana since the November 5, 2022 test and that he had voluntarily completed a 
substance abuse IOP. At the security clearance hearing, Applicant admitted that he had 
minimized the length of his marijuana use to two weeks instead of six weeks because he 
had been “scared” about his impending separation from the ANG. (GE 4; Tr. 121) 
On February 2, 2024, Applicant certified and submitted an Electronic 
Questionnaire for Investigations Processing (e-QIP). Under Section 15 – Military History, 
he reported his two UCMJ offenses, the separation proceeding, and his reduction in rank. 
Under Section 23 – Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity, Applicant reported that he had 
used marijuana or tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) “every night” for about six weeks between 
September 2022 and November 2022. He admitted that this use occurred while he 
possessed a security clearance. He further admitted that he had purchased the THC on 
multiple occasions. He also reported his participation in substance abuse treatment at an 
Intensive Outpatient Program (IOP) from February to April 2023. He stated his intent to 
abstain from illegal drugs in the future. (GE 1) 
In his Answer, Applicant acknowledged his “critical error in judgment” and 
apologized for  his actions. He has attended “many recovery meetings” and has “the  
tools/resources to abstain from  drugs and alcohol.”  In his post-hearing email, he reiterated  
his admissions  of poor judgment, and he provided documentation of three recent  drug  
urinalyses  and an updated letter  from his completed IOP.  He has not  used any  illegal  
drugs since November  2022, and he has had no contact  since about November  2022 w ith  
the friend who had provided him the THC. He has not associated with anyone, including  
friends, family members, and co- workers, who uses  illegal drugs  for at least two years.  
Applicant passed a pre-employment drug test in about October  2023,  and he submitted  
negative drug screenings from  August  15, 2025, September 11,  2025, and September  
24,  2025. Applicant’s  wife, family,  and friends are aware of his  previous THC  use, the  
failed drug test,  and the attempted adulteration of his urine sample. (Answer; AE B, C, E-
G; Tr. 107-116)   
Whole Person  
4 
 
 
      
    
 
 
   
  
    
   
 
 
   
    
   
    
    
 
 
   
   
   
  
       
 
 
    
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
 
  
   
     
 
  
   
    
   
   
 
Four witnesses – all of whom were aware of Applicant’s failed drug urinalysis and 
attempt to adulterate his urine sample – testified in favor of Applicant’s clearance 
eligibility. His current and former supervisors with the DOD contractor both previously 
served in the military. They praised Applicant’s work performance, work ethic, 
dependability, integrity, and accountability, and they noted that he had repeatedly 
received awards from his supervisors and peers for his work. A current co- worker, who 
inspects the quality of Applicant’s work, described him as an excellent employee. There 
is no evidence of any disciplinary actions or security infractions while employed with the 
DOD contractor. (Tr. 37-72) 
Most compelling was the testimony of Applicant’s fourth witness – a retired 
brigadier general with the ANG now employed with the DOD contractor. He currently 
interacts daily with Applicant. He characterized Applicant’s work performance as 
“outstanding” and considered Applicant to be a perfectionist. Of the over 1500 service 
members he commanded, this witness has only testified in support of three airmen’s 
clearance eligibility, including Applicant’s. The witness testified: 
He is an impeccable individual who, as airmen do, make mistakes and make 
dumb mistakes. But to [Applicant’s] credit, he’s accountable for it. He’s 
dealing with the consequences. And if he gets his clearance back, that 
would be wonderful, because he could continue to contribute either to [the 
DOD contractor] or if – I’d love to see him back in the – in the military.” (Tr. 
76-84) 
Applicant proffered five character -reference letters in support of his clearance 
eligibility, including four letters from his ANG leadership. All five references were aware 
of his failed drug urinalysis, his attempt to adulterate his urine sample, and, to some 
degree, his THC use. They praised Applicant’s “unmatched work ethic,” leadership, 
integrity, professionalism, and trustworthiness. They had been shocked by his misconduct 
but noted his accountability for his actions. (Answer; AE B) 
Applicant’s former ANG commander recommended that he retain his security 
clearance notwithstanding the seriousness of his misconduct: 
As [Applicant’s] Commanding Officer at the time, I was privy to all the details 
surrounding his actions outlined in the discharge documentation and am 
undeterred in my full endorsement of his continued ability to be trusted with 
sensitive material. My support is rooted in the fact that [Applicant] took full 
responsibility for his actions when confronted, demonstrated genuine and 
deep remorse, took deliberate corrective actions and steps at self -
improvement, and was truthful and transparent throughout the entire 
process from beginning to end. I am also aware that his wife and family 
know everything that occurred and are still his biggest supporters which 
eliminates any risk of exploitation or manipulation/coercion. (Answer) 
Policies  
5 
 
 
 
    
  
  
      
   
 
 
    
 
  
  
    
      
 
 
 
  
   
 
     
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
 
  
  
 
   
 
    
 
 
 
 
  
 
When evaluating an applicant ’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to sensitive information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
sensitive information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard sensitive informat ion. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of sensitive information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline H: Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse  
The security concern for drug involvement is set out in AG ¶ 24: 
6 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
 
   
 
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
     
  
 
  
 
 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any “controlled substance” as 
defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in 
this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 25. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a)  any  substance misuse;  
(b
)  testing positive for  an i llegal drug;  and  
(f) any illegal  drug use while granted access to classified information or  
holding a sensitive position.1  
M
arijuana is a Schedule I controlled substance under Federal law pursuant to Title 
21, S
ection 812 of the United States Code. Schedule I drugs are those which have a high 
potential for abuse; have no currently accepted medical use in treatment in the Unite d 
States; and lack accepted safety for use of the drug under medical supervision. Section 
844 under Title 21 of the United States Code makes it unlawful for any person to 
knowingly or intentionally possess a controlled substance not obtained pursuant to a valid 
prescription. 
On October 25, 2014, the then Director of National Intelligence (DNI) issued 
guidance that changes to laws by some states and the District of Columbia to legalize or 
decriminalize the recreational use of marijuana do not alter existing Federal law or the 
National Security Adjudicative Guidelines, and that an individual’s disregard of Federal 
law pertaining to the use, sale, or manufacture of marijuana remains adjudicatively 
relevant in national security eligibility determinations. 
On December 21, 2021, the then DNI issued clarifying guidance concerning 
marijuana, noting that prior recreational use of marijuana by an individual may be relevant 
to security adjudications, but is not determinative in the whole- person evaluation. 
Relevant factors in mitigation include the frequency of use and whether the individual can 
demonstrate that future use is unlikely to recur. 
1  Applicant’s  illegal  purchase and  possession of  marijuana  were  not  alleged,  therefore,  I c annot c onsider  
the application of AG  ¶  25(c) [illegal possession of a controlled substance,  including cultivation, processing,  
manufacture, purchase, sale, or distribution;  or possession of drug paraphernalia].  
7 
 
 
    
     
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
   
   
     
      
   
  
 
  
   
   
 
 
    
 
    
 
  
    
    
   
   
Applicant admitted his illegal use of marijuana while possessing a security 
clearance and his failed drug urinalysis. AG ¶¶ 25(a), 25(b), and 25(f) apply. 
Conditions that could mitigate the drug involvement security concerns are provided 
under AG ¶ 26. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or ha
 ppened  
under  such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur  or does not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability,  trustworthiness,  or good judgment;  and  
(b) the individual acknowledges  his  or her drug involvement and substance  
misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and  
has established a pattern of  abstinence, including, but not limited to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-usi ng associates and contacts;  
(2) changing or  avoi ding the environment where drugs were used;  
and  
(3) providing a signed statement  of i ntent to abstain from  all drug  
involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future  
involvement  or misuse is grounds for revocation of  national security  
eligibility.  
Appli
cant was fully aware that his purchase and use of THC-infused edibles and 
vape fluid were illegal and prohibited as an ANG service member and clearance holder. 
His attempt to adulterate his urine sample is a significant aggravating factor in this case. 
That said, there is no other evidence of illegal drug use or substance misuse – outside of 
this six-week window – in the past 15 years. Similarly, there is no evidence of any other 
failed drug screenings or efforts to adulterate screenings. He admitted his attempt to 
adulterate his urine sample that same day, and he admitted the full extent of his marijuana 
use throughout his clearance process. He voluntarily completed a substance abuse IOP, 
learned coping tools, and has implemented the aftercare recommendations for individual 
counseling and attendance at AA meetings. He openly discussed his misconduct with his 
family and friends and with his current and former supervisors who testified on behalf of 
clearance eligibility. There is no evidence of any drug involvement or association with 
drug users since November 2022, and he clearly stated his intent to abstain from illegal 
drugs in his e-QIP, his Answer, and during his testimony. AG ¶¶ 26(a) and 26(b) apply. 
I do not take lightly the gravity of either Applicant’s marijuana use while possessing 
a security clearance and in a sensitive position or his attempt to adulterate his urine 
sample. I likewise take notice of how he minimized his marijuana use in his July 2023 
statement. That said, there is no other evidence of misconduct or questionable judgment 
during his military or civilian careers. Furthermore, he was experiencing the pressures of 
fatherhood and the potential impact to his military and civilian careers when confronted 
about his marijuana use. He has since engaged counseling, learned coping tools during 
8 
 
 
     
 
 
 
  
 
 
     
   
 
 
      
 
 
   
 
   
   
 
 
 
  
   
     
   
 
   
  
   
 
the IOP, and has been open with his family, friends, and supervisors. Applicant mitigated 
the drug involvement and substance misuse security concerns. 
Guideline J: Criminal Conduct  
The security concern for criminal conduct is set out in AG ¶ 30: 
Criminal activity creates doubt about a  person’s judgment, reliability, and  
trustworthiness. By its very nature, it calls into question a person’s ability or  
willingness to comply  with laws, rules  and regulations.  
AG ¶ 31 describes conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying. The following is potentially applicable: 
(b) evidence (including, but not limited to, a credible allegation, an 
admission, and matters of  official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of  
whether the individual  was formally charged,  prosecuted, or convicted.  
Applicant was charged with two UCMJ offenses for his marijuana use and his 
attempted adulteration of his urine sample. He pled guilty and was reduced in rank. He 
also admitted illegal drug use on approximately 25 occasions between mid- September 
2022 and early November 2022. AG ¶ 31(b) applies. 
Conditions that could mitigate criminal conduct security concerns are provided 
under AG ¶ 32. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a) so much time has  elaps
 ed since the criminal behavior happened, or it  
happened under such unusual circumstances, that it is unlikely to recur and  
does not cast doubt on the individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, or good  
judgment; and  
(d) there is evidence of successful rehabilitation; including, but not limited  
to,
 the passage of time without recurrence of criminal activity, restitution,  
compliance with the terms of parole or  probation, job training or higher  
education,  good employment record,  or constructive community  
involvement.  
Appli
cant’s criminal conduct occurred over three years ago. Although he minimized 
the span of his marijuana use in his July 2023 statement, there is no other evidence of 
any other criminal conduct, questionable judgment, disciplinary actions, or security 
infractions in the past 15 years. He provided substantial evidence of rehabilitation through 
his witness testimony and his character -reference letters. He has received multiple 
awards for his work performance with his current employer. He is currently engaged in 
individual counseling and has been open with his family, friends, and supervisors about 
his past misconduct. AG ¶¶ 32(a) and 32(d) apply. 
9 
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
     
    
      
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
Guideline E: Personal Conduct  
The concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. . . . 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 16. The following disqualifying condition is potentially applicable in this case: 
(d) credible adverse information that is not explicitly covered under any  
other  gui
deline and may not be sufficient by itself for an adverse  
determination,  but which, when combined with all available information,  
supports a whole- person assessment  of questionable judgment,  
untrustworthiness,  unreliability, lack of candor, unwillingness to comply with 
rules and regulations,  or other characteristics indicating that the individual  
may  not properly safeguard classified or sensitive information. This  
includes, but is not limited to, consideration of:  
(3) a pattern of  dis honesty or rule violations.  
The SO
R was amended to cross -allege Applicant’s attempted adulteration of his 
urine sample (SOR ¶ 2.b.) as a personal conduct security concern (SOR ¶ 3.a.) . This 
conduct was alleged and addressed under Guideline J; however, it may also be 
considered here. Concerned about his upcoming drill obligation, Applicant purchased 
“synthetic urine” prior to reporting for drill. After he was required to participate in a random 
drug urinalysis, he brought the small bottle of “synthetic urine” into the testing area with 
the intention of using it to conceal his marijuana use. Although he aborted this attempt for 
fear of discovery, he took actions in an attempt to adulterate his urine sample. AG ¶ 
16(d)(3) applies. 
The following personal conduct mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 17 are potentially 
relevant: 
(c) the offense is so minor, or so much time has passed or the behavior is  
so i
nfrequent, or it happened under such unique circumstances that it is  
unlikely to recur  and  does not cast doubt  on the individual’s reliability,  
trustworthiness, or  good judgment; and  
(d) the individual  has  ac knowledged the behavior and obtaining counseling  
to change the behavior or taken other positive steps to alleviate the  
stressors, circumstances, or factors that  contributed to untrustworthy,  
unreliable, or  other inappropriate behavior, and such behavior is  unlikely to  
recur.  
10 
 
 
  
   
   
     
 
   
  
 
     
 
    
 
 
   
    
     
     
 
      
   
   
  
   
     
    
 
   
    
  
  
   
 
 
   
    
 
The Guideline E mitigation analysis mirrors that of Guideline H, supra. Applicant 
has engaged in individual counseling, which he has found helpful. He has disclosed his 
marijuana use, his failed drug test, and his attempt to adulterate his urine sample to his 
spouse, family, friends, and supervisors. As discussed above, I have considered the 
gravity of his marijuana use while possessing a security clearance and his attempt to 
conceal that use by adulterating his urine sample. I have also considered his aforethought 
in purchasing the synthetic urine. For the reasons delineated within the Guideline H 
mitigating analysis, supra, I conclude that Applicant has taken positive steps to alleviate 
the stressors and to implement coping tools such that his misconduct is unlikely to recur. 
AG ¶¶ 17(c) and 17(d) apply. Applicant mitigated the personal conduct security concerns. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information by considering the totality of the 
applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should 
consider the nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; ( 5) the  extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. I considered the potentially 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances 
surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under Guideline H, Guideline J, 
Guideline E, and the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) in this whole-person analysis. 
Applicant has thrived in his new career with a DOD contractor. I found his testimony 
credible and sincere. I found the testimony of his witnesses and the character -reference 
letters even more compelling. Applicant’s former commander, a retired brigadier general 
with the ANG, who, though aware of Applicant’s misconduct, described Applicant as an 
“impeccable individual” who has taken accountability for his mistakes. His former 
commanding officer, likewise privy to Applicant’s misconduct, was “undeterred in [his] full 
endorsement of [Applicant’s] continued ability to be trusted with sensitive material.” These 
individuals did not make these endorsements lightly, and they are bolstered by the 
references of Applicant’s current and former supervisors with the DOD contractor. 
11 
 
 
    
  
   
 
  
 
 
      
    
 
   
 
  
 
   
 
    
 
   
 
     
 
  
   
     
       
 
 
 
 
As discussed at length above, I have considered the gravity of Applicant’s 
misconduct and have applied the appropriate strict scrutiny and high threshold to his 
evidence in mitigation. Taken with the strength of his endorsements, I found the isolated 
nature of Applicant’s marijuana use and misconduct a critical element. Applicant mitigated 
the drug involvement, criminal conduct, and personal conduct security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  G
 uideline H:   FOR  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 1.a.-1.b.:    For  Applicant  
Paragraph 2, Guideline J:   FOR APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 2.a.-2.c.:  For Applicant  
Paragraph 3, Guideline E:   FOR APPLICANT  
Subparagraph 3.a.:  For Applicant  
Conclusion  
In l
ight of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, I conclude 
that it is clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant Applicant ’s 
eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Eric H. Borgstrom 
Administrative Judge 
12 