 
 
 
                                                              
                           
          
           
             
 
 
    
  
       
     
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
        
       
       
        
 
  
 
       
           
           
        
        
         
    
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00750 
) 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Aubrey De Angelis, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Alan Edmunds, Esq., Applicant’s Counsel 
Grant Couch, Esq., Applicant’s Counsel 
02/24/2025 
Decision 
CEFOLA, Richard A., Administrative Judge: 
Statement  of the Case  
On June 24, 2024 , in accordance with DoD Directive 5220.6, as amended 
(Directive), the Department of Defense issued Applicant a Statement of Reasons (SOR) 
alleging facts that raise security concerns under Guideline B. The SOR further informed 
Applicant that, based on information available to the government, DoD adjudicators 
could not make the preliminary affirmative finding it is clearly consistent with the national 
interest to grant or continue Applicant’s security clearance. 
Applicant answered the SOR (Answer) on September 13, 2024, and requested a 
hearing before an administrative judge. (Answer.) The case was assigned to me on 
November 13, 2024 . The Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a 
notice of hearing on November 19, 2024 , scheduling the hearing for December 13, 
2024. The hearing was convened as scheduled. The Government offered Exhibits (GX) 
1 and 2, which were admitted without objection, and Hearing Exhibit s (HXs) I and II for 
Administrative Notice . Applicant testified on his own behalf. Applicant presented five 
1 
 
 
 
       
       
     
    
 
 
        
        
      
      
        
             
 
 
 
           
    
 
    
         
        
        
             
 
 
 
 
       
       
          
    
        
           
             
                  
  
 
   
         
              
         
            
    
    
 
packets of documents, one included in his Answer, one at his hearing, and three post -
hearing, which I marked Applicant’s Exhibits (AppXs ) A through R, and Post Hearing 
Exhibits (PHXs) Q through U , which were admitted without objection . DOHA received 
the transcript of the hearing (TR) on December 23, 2024. 
Procedural Rulings  
At the hearing, the Government requested I take administrative notice of certain 
facts relating to the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, and the People’s 
Republic of China. (HE s I and II.) Applicant also submitted the “U.S. State Department 
2024 Hong Kong Policy Act Report”.” (AppX U, Attachment B.) The documents provide 
elaboration and context for the summary. I take administrative notice of the facts 
included in the U.S. Government reports. They are limited to matters of general 
knowledge, not subject to reasonable dispute. They are set out in the Findings of Fact. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant admi tted to both allegations in SOR. After a thorough and careful 
review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. 
Applicant is a 28-year-old employee of a defense contractor. (TR at page 13 lines 
1~2.) He has been employed with the defense contractor since May of 2022. (GX 1 at 
page 16.) He is not married, and has no chi ldren. Applicant emigrated from Hong 
Kong, became a U.S. citizen in 2014, and served in the U.S. Army for eight years, 
achieving the rank of sergeant. (TR at page 12 line 23 to page 14 line 7, at page 18 
lines 4~20, and at page 25 line 24 to page 26 line 5.) 
Guideline B - Foreign Influence 
1.a. Applicant’s 60-year-old mother and 61 -year-old father are British Nationals 
Overseas (BNOs), as evidenced by their “United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland” passports. (PHXs S and T.) If they ever decide to reside in the U.K., “BNO’s 
may become British citizens by registration, rather than naturalization.” (PHX R at page 
1.) His mother is a nurse and his father an entrepreneur. They reside in Hong Kong, but 
have no connection with the Hong Kong or British governments. Applicant does not 
discuss his employment with his parents. (TR at page 14 line 8 to page 16 line 14, at 
page 17 line 13 to page 18 line 20, at page 20 lines 9~15, at page 24 lines 19~25, and 
at page 29 line 18 to page 31 line 9.) 
1.b. Upon her death, Applicant’s 89-year-old grandmother (his grandfather is 
deceased) has gifted Applicant her Hong Kong residence worth $350,000. (TR at page 
23 line18 to page 24 line 4, and AppX R the last two pages .) Once Applicant obtains 
ownership, he plans to sell the property and invest in real-estate in the United States. 
(TR at page 31 line 21 to page 32 line 8.) Applicant’s annual income is about $100,000. 
He has about $50,000 in his bank accounts, and about $30,000 in his retirement 
account. (TR at page 26 line 20 to page 27 line 14.) 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
           
    
      
        
      
 
 
 
      
        
       
         
   
 
          
    
           
      
         
      
      
    
 
      
    
       
         
 
 
        
           
       
      
     
 
            
         
Notice 
I take  administrative  notice  of  the  following  facts regarding  the  Hong  Kong  
Special Administrative Region  of the  People’s  Republic of China  (HK  of PRC). In  1997,  
China  resumed  the  exercise  of sovereignty over Hong  Kong, ending  150  years of British  
colonial rule. Since  2019, the  PRC  has repeatedly taken  actions inconsistent with  the  
Basic Law of HK of PRC. (HX I.)  
The PRC seeks to become a world science and technology superpower and use 
this technological superiority for economic, political, and military gain. The PRC remains 
the most active and persistent cyber threat to U.S. Government networks. It will 
continue to expand its global intelligence posture to advance PRC ambitions, 
challenging U.S. national security and global influence. The U.S. Department of State 
has reported significant human rights issues in the PRC. (HX II.) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The 
administrative judge’s over arching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial , and 
commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a ), the entire process is a conscientious 
scrutiny of a number o f variables known as the whole -person concept. The 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I 
have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical , and based on the 
evidence contained in the record. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel , and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable clearance decision.” 
A person who applies for access to classified information seeks to enter into a 
fiduciary relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
3 
 
 
 
     
             
     
        
        
        
  
 
 
 
 
          
  
 
 
    
     
 
 
      
       
       
     
  
 
 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or 
safeguard classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally 
permissible extrapolation as to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of 
classified information. 
Section  7  of Executive  Order (EO)  10865  provides that  adverse decisions shall  
be  “in  terms of the  national interest and  shall  in no  sense  be  a  determination  as to  the  
loyalty of the   applicant  concerned.” See  also  EO  12968, Section  3.1(b) (listing  multiple  
prerequisites for access to classified or sensitive information).    
Analysis  
Guideline B - Foreign Influence  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Foreign Influence is set out in 
AG ¶ 6: 
Foreign  contacts and  interests,  including, but not limited  to,  business,  
financial,  and  property interests, are  a  national security concern  if they  
result in divided  allegiance.  They  may also  be  a  national security concern  
if they create  circumstances in which  the  individual may be manipulated or  
induced  to  help a  foreign  person, group, organization, or government in a  
way inconsistent with  U.S. interests or otherwise made  vulnerable to  
pressure or coercion  by any foreign  interest. Assessment  of foreign  
contacts and  interests  should consider the  country  in which  the  foreign  
contact or interest  is located, including, but not limited  to, considerations  
such  as whether it is known to  target U.S.  citizens to  obtain classified  or  
sensitive information or is associated with  a risk of terrorism.  
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise sec urity concerns under 
AG ¶ 7. Three are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) contact,  rega rdless  of method, with  a  foreign  family member, business  
or professional associate, friend, or other person  who  is a  citizen  of or  
resident  in  a  foreign  country  if that  contact creates  a  heightened  risk of  
foreign  exploitation, inducement,  manipulation, pressure, or coercion;  
(b) connections to a foreign person, group, government, or country that 
create a potential conflict of interest between the individual's obligation to 
protect classified or sensitive information or technology and the 
individual's desire to help a foreign person, group, or country by providing 
that information or technology; and 
4 
 
 
 
 
    
        
  
 
         
        
 
 
       
  
 
 
 
 
   
       
   
 
 
 
 
          
      
         
    
 
(f) substantial business, financial, or property interests in a foreign country, 
or in any foreign owned or foreign -operated business that could subject 
the individual to a heightened risk of foreign influence or exploitation or 
personal conflict of interest 
Applicant’s parents reside in Hong Kong; and in the future, Applicant will inherit a 
property worth about $350,000. The evidence is sufficient to raise these disqualifying 
conditions. 
AG ¶ 8 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. I considered all 
of the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 8 including: 
(a) the  nature  of the  relationships with  foreign  persons, the  country in  
which  these  persons are located,  or the  positions or activities of those  
persons in that country are such  that it is unlikely the  individual will  be  
placed  in a  position  of having  to  choose  between  the  interests of a  foreign  
individual, group, organization, or government and  the  interests  of the  
United States;  
(b) there is no  conflict of interest,  either because  the  individual’s  sense  of  
loyalty or obligation  to  the  foreign  person,  or allegiance  to  the  group,  
government,  or country is so  minimal, or the  individual has such  deep  and  
longstanding  relationships and  loyalties in the  United  States, that the  
individual can  be  expected  to  resolve any conflict of interest in favor of the  
U.S. interest;  
(c) contact or communication  with  foreign  citizens is so  casual and  
infrequent that there is  little likelihood  that it could create  a  risk for foreign  
influence or exploitation;  and  
(f) the value or routine nature of the foreign business, financial, or property 
interests is such that they are unlikely to result in a conflict and could not 
be used effectively to influence, manipulate, or pressure the individual. 
As British  nationals living  overseas,  Applicant’s parents are   free  to  depart Hong  
Kong  for the United Kingdom. They also have no connection with the Government of the  
PRC. As to  Applicant’s  potential, future inheritance, this U.S. Army Veteran  plans to  sell  
the  property once  he gains possession,  and  reinvest  in the  U.S., where the  vast  majority  
of his financial interests reside. Foreign  Influence is found for Applicant.  
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole -person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
5 
 
 
 
         
      
      
        
      
      
      
    
 
       
   
  
 
       
 
        
       
          
  
 
     
     
      
 
 
      
  
 
    
 
    
 
 
        
       
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of 
rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation 
for the conduct; (8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or 
duress; and (9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Under AG ¶ 2( c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a security 
clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guideline B in my whole -person analysis. Some of the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) were 
addressed under those guidelines, but some warrant additional comment. Applicant is 
well respected by those who served with him in the U.S. Army, and in the defense 
industry. (AppXs N~P.) 
Overall, the record eviden ce leaves me with out questions or doubts as to 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance . For all these reasons, I 
conclude Applicant mitigated the Foreign Influence security concern. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by ¶ E3.1.25 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  B: FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a. and 1.b:  For Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant national security eligibility 
and a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Richard A. Cefola 
Administrative Judge 
6 