 
 
 
                                                              
 
 
                                                                                                                    
          
           
             
 
 
 
 
  
  
                
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
    
   
     
   
    
  
______________ 
______________ 
DEPART
MENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 24-00383 
Appearances  
For Government: 
Tara Karoian, Esquire, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: 
Bradley P. Moss, Esquire, Applicant’s Counsel 
09/25/2025 
Decision 
CEFOLA, Richard A., Administrative Judge: 
Statement  of the Case  
On July 20, 2020, Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA). On 
October 11, 2024, in accordance with DoD Directive 5220.6, as amended (Directive), the 
Department of Defense issued Applicant a Statement of Reasons (SOR) alleging facts 
that raise security concerns under Guidelines G (Alcohol Consumption) and E (Personal 
Conduct). The action was taken under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information Within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of 
Defense Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
  
 
  
  
   
     
 
    
    
       
      
  
 
 
   
       
   
   
 
   
   
      
       
  
  
 
 
 
 
Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) 
effective within the Department of Defense on June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR in writing (Answer) on December 23, 202 4, and 
requested a hearing before an administrative judge. The case was assigned to me on 
April 22, 2025. The Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a Notice of 
Hearing on May 9 , 2025 . I convened the hearing as scheduled on July 1, 2025, and 
reconvened it on July 31, 2025. The Government offered Government Exhibits (GXs) 1 
through 8, which were admitted without objection, and called one witness to testify. 
Applicant testified on h er own behalf, and offered Applicant Exhibits (AppXs) A through 
M, which were admitted without objection. The record was left open for the receipt of 
additional evidence. On September 5, 2025, AppX N was offered, and received without 
objection. DOHA received the transcripts of the hearing (TR I and TR II) on July 14, 2025, 
and August 13, 2025, respectively. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1. a, 1.c. through 1.h, and 2.a. She 
denied SOR allegation ¶ 1.b, and denies, in part, SOR ¶¶ 1. e, 1.g, and 1.h. After a 
thorough and careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following 
findings of fact. 
Applicant is a 54-year-old employee of a defense contractor. She has a master’s 
degree. Applicant has been employed with the defense contractor since 2021 . She has 
held a security clearance, off and on, over a period of “24 years.” Applicant is twice 
divorced, and has three children, ages 27, 23 and 17. (TR I at page 6 line 19 to page 7 
line 7, and at page 90 line 17 to page 93 line 16.) 
Guideline G: Alcohol  Consumption  
2 
 1.
a.  and 1.b. From April  2016 to May  2016, Applicant received treatment  for a 
condition diagnosed as Alcohol Use Disorder, severe.  In response to the SOR  ¶ 1.b , 
Applicant denied that  she failed to follow treatment  advice a nd continued to consume  
alcohol. At her hearing, however,  Applicant  now admits that she failed to follow treatment  
advice.  (TR I at  page 62 line 12 to page 69 line 1,  at page 93 line 17 to page 107 line 7,  
and  at page 1 64 line 1 to page 167 line 5;  TR II at page 6 line 16 to page 8 line 24; and  
GX  7 at page 7.)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.c. Applicant  admits that  in August  2017,  she was arrested and charged with  
Driving Under the Influence of  Alcohol (DUI).  Applicant admits to consuming “three or  
four” drinks of alcohol.  She refused a breathalyzer  test, and was subsequently found guilty  
of reckless driving.  (TR I at page 107 line 8 to page 117 line 5; TR II at page 8 line 25 to  
page 9 line 22; and AppX  A at pages  1~3.)  
1.d.  Applicant admits that in July 2018, she was arrested and charged with Public  
Intoxication. She arrived  at an airport, having consumed “four  beers”  on a previous  flight.  
Applicant was held overnight in custody until  she “was  100% sober.” This arrest and  
charge  were  subsequently expunged from Applicant’s criminal record.   (TR I at  page 117  
line 6 to page 123 line 10;  TR II at  page 9 line 23 to page  11 line 7;  GX 3 at page  1; and 
AppXs  B, E, M and N.)  
1.e. Applicant admits that  in August 2018,  her  children called the police, claiming  
Applicant  was intoxicated and disorderly. She had consumed one beer before returning  
home,  and  “two or  three beers” in her bedroom.  Applicant denies being i ntoxicated an d  
disorderly.  This incident was  subsequently  expunged from  Applicant’s record.   (TR  I at 
page 123 l ine 11 to p age 126 line 11;  TR  II at page  11 line 8 to page 14 line 1; GX 4 at 
page 2; and AppXs  E,  M, N and L at page 5.)  
1.f.  Applicant admits  that  in April 2019, she was arrested and charged  with DUI,  
Refusal  of Breath Test, and Hit and Run of a mailbox. She had consumed three drinks  of 
alcohol. Her blood  alcohol  content level  was “twice the legal limit.”  Applicant subsequently  
pled guilty  to  Refusal of  B reath Test. This arrest and charges  were subsequently  
expunged from Applicant’s criminal record.  (TR I at  page 127 line 1 to page 134 line 12; 
TR II at page 14 line 2 to page 15 line 5; GX 5 at page 3; and AppXs E, M, N and L at  
page 5.)  
1.g.  Applicant admits that  in August of  2021, she filed a report  with her local  
sheriff’s office, as she was sexually assaulted while walking home  at night.  Upon her  
arrival at home Applicant “went digging through a closet  and found a bottle of whiskey  
that . . . [she had] left, stupidly, in the house. . . . And, . . .started  drinking it.” (TR I at page  
134 line 13 to page 144 line 3;  TR  II at page 168 lines  1~24;  and GX 6 at pages 2~3.)  
1.h. In October  2023, following an evaluation with a licensed psychologist,  which  
consisted of a  telephone  interview  of approximately  90 minute s and the review of  
documentation,  Applicant  was diagnosed with an Alcohol Use Disorder, in sustained  
remission.  (Prior to this interview, Applicant  responded to all but  three of 330 posited  
questions.) (TR I at page 16 line 18 to page 22 line 13,  at page 23 line 23 to page 55 line  
17, at  page 70 line 15 to page 85 l  ine 23, at page 86 lines 5~18, at page 149 line 22 to  
page 151 line 17; TR II at page 16 line 25 to page 17 line 13;  and GX  8.)  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
      
   
       
    
      
    
     
  
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
 
More recently, in July of 2025, Applicant received a psychological assessment 
from another licensed psychologist. He averred that as to Applicant’s “Presentation . . . 
No mental illness was indicated during the interview, there is no evidence of any mood 
disorder.” As to her “Alcohol and Substance Use History . . . It would appear that after her 
last incident while drinking in 2019 . . . she then stopped and restricted her drinking to 
once every six or seven months. She stated that she has now been sober for one year.” 
This psychologist concluded, in part, the following: “it is the writer’s opinion that in relation 
to . . . [Applicant], there is no mental health or other issues evident that may be of concern 
or potentially affect the employee’s ability to succeed in the work environment.” (AppX L 
at pages 2, 5 and 10.) Applicant did mention her 2021 incident to the psychologist. (TR II 
at page 17 line 14 to page 18 line 4.) 
As of the date  of Applicant’s second hearing,  July 31
st  in the U.S. but already  
August 1st  in the country  where she currently  lives, she had 13 months of sobriety. (TR II  
at page 36 lines  1~9.)  Applicant  has  also established a support system for her  sobriety in 
her current location. (TR II at  page 18 line  5 to page 19 line 23.)  
Guide
line E: Personal Conduct  
2.a. I n January 2017, while  in the United States  more than eight  years ago,  
Applicant  admits  that she started an online relationship  with a  male contact, a f oreigner  
living in the U.S. She provided  this scam  artist  with $30,000~$40,000 in loans that were  
never repaid. Applicant broke off this  online relationship a couple of months after it began.  
(TR I  at page 22 line 14 to page 23 line 22, at page 55 line 18 to page 59 line 25, at page  
150 line 18 to page 155 line 2, at page 156 line 6 to page 162 line 25; and GX 2.)  
Po
licies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for national security eligibility, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines (AG) list 
potentially disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in 
evaluating an applicant’s national security eligibility. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. The entire 
process is a conscientious scrutiny of applicable guidelines in the context of a number of 
variables known as the whole- person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
  
 
  
   
   
   
 
  
   
  
   
    
  
 
  
  
   
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. I have not drawn inferences based on mere speculation or 
conjecture. 
Directive ¶ E3.1.14, requires the Government to present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel, and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable clearance decision.” 
A person applying for national security eligibility seeks to enter into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants national 
security eligibility. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk the 
applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as 
to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified or sensitive information. 
Finally, as emphasized in Section 7 of Executive Order 10865, “[a]ny determination under 
this order adverse to an applicant shall be a determination in terms of the national interest 
and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” 
See also Executive Order 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information.) 
Analysis  
Guideline G:  Alcohol Consumption  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Alcohol Consumption is set out 
in AG ¶ 21: 
Excessive alcohol consumption often leads  to the exercise of  questionable  
judgment or  the failure to control impulses,  and can raise questions about  
an individual's reliability and trustworthiness.  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
        
     
     
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
    
     
    
 
The guideline at AG ¶ 22 contains seven conditions that could raise a security 
concern and may be disqualifying. Four conditions may apply: 
(a) alcohol-r
elated incidents  away from work, such as  driving while under  
the influence, fighting,  child or spouse abuse,  disturbing the peace, or other  
incidents of concern, regardless of the frequency  of  the individual's alcohol  
use or  whether the i ndividual has been diagnosed with al cohol use di sorder;  
(d) diagnosis by  a dul y  qualified medical or mental health professional (e.g.,  
physician, clinical psychologist, psychiatrist, or licensed clinical social  
worker) of alcohol use disorder;  
(e) the failure to follow  t reatment advice once diagnosed; and  
(f) alcohol consumption, which is  not  in accordance with treatment  
recommendations, after a diagnosis  of alcohol use disorder.  
In 2016
, Appli
cant did not follow the treatment advice given her after she was 
diagnosed as suffering from an Alcohol Use Disorder, severe. Applicant also has five 
alcohol-related incidents between August 2017 and April 2021 . These facts establish 
prima facie support for the foregoing disqualifying conditions, and shift the burden to 
Applicant to mitigate those concerns. 
The guideline at AG ¶ 23 contains four conditions that could mitigate security 
concerns. Two conditions may apply: 
(a) so much time has passed,  or  the behavior was so infrequent, or it  
happened under such unusual circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or  
does  not cast doubt on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or  
judgment;  and  
(b) the individual acknowledges his  or  her pattern of maladaptive  alcohol  
use,  provides evidence of  actions taken to overcome this  problem, and has  
demonstrated a clear and established pattern of modified consumption or  
abstinence in accordance with treatment recommendations.  
Appl
ican
t’s last alcohol-related incident was in April of 2021, more than four years 
ago. She has most recently been evaluated favorably by licensed psychologist. Applicant 
also has more than a year of sobriety and a credible support system. Alcohol 
Consumption is found for Applicant. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
     
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
     
      
 
  
   
 
 
       
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Guideline E:  Personal Conduct  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Personal Conduct is set out in 
AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 16. One is potentially applicable in this case: 
(e) personal conduct,  or
  concealment  of information about one's conduct,  
that creates  a vulnerability to exploitation,  manipulation,  or duress by a  
foreign intelligence entity  or other individual  or group. Such  conduct  
includes:  
(1) engaging in activities which, if known, could affect  t he  
person's  personal,  professional, or community standing.  
Applican
t was duped out of $30,000~$40,000 by an online , romantic relationship 
scam. The evidence is sufficient to raise this disqualifying condition. 
AG ¶ 17 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. I considered 
all of the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 17 including: 
(c) the offense is so minor, or so much time has passed, or the behavior is  
so  infrequent, or it happened under such unique circumstances that it is  
unlikely to recur  and  does not cast doubt  on the individual's reliability,  
trustworthiness, or  good judgment.  
Applicant was scammed out of monies more than eight years ago. She has learned 
her lesson; and as such, the prospect of her being deceived similarly in the future is de 
minimis. Personal Conduct is found for Applicant. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
      
   
 
 
 
   
 
     
    
    
 
 
   
    
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s national security eligibility by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct 
and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.   
According to AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant national 
security eligibility must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the applicable guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guidelines G and E in my whole-person analysis. Some of the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) were 
addressed under those guidelines, but some warrant additional comment. Applicant has 
a distinguished history of working in the defense industry . She performs well at his job. 
AppX I.) 
Overall, the record evidence leaves me without questions or doubts as to 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. For these reasons, I conclude 
Applicant mitigated the Alcohol Consumption and Personal Conduct security concerns. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
        
      
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
Formal Findings  
 Formal findings  for or  agai
 nst Applicant  on the allegations set forth in the SOR,  as  
required by  ¶  E3.1.25 of  the Directive, are:  
Paragraph 1,  Guideline G:   FOR APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a~1.h:  For Applicant  
Par
agraph 2, Guideline E:   FOR APPLICANT  
Subparagraph  2.a:  For Appl
icant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security clearance. 
Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Richard A. Cefola 
Administrative Judge 
9 