 
 
 
                                                              
                             
          
           
 
             
    
  
       
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
  
 
 
 
     
     
       
    
  
 
   
      
   
    
  
  
 
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTME
NT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00198 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Cynthia Ruckno, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
05/13/2025 
Decision 
LOUGHRAN, Edward W., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not mitigate the financial considerations security concerns . 
Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
On March 7, 2024, the Department of Defense (DoD ) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline F (financial 
considerations). Applicant responded to the SOR on March 15, 2024, and requested a 
hearing before an administrative judge. The case was assigned to me on November 21, 
2024. 
The hearing was convened as scheduled on February 4, 2025 . Government 
Exhibits (GE) 1 through 4 were admitted in evidence without objection. Applicant 
testified and submitted Applicant Exhibits (AE) A through O, which were admitted 
without objection. The record was held open for Applicant to submit additional 
documentary evidence. She submitted documents that I have marked AE P through S 
and admitted in evidence without objection. 
1 
 
 
  
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
    
    
   
  
   
 
 
   
 
   
  
 
   
 
 
    
 
    
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
    
 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 58-year-old employee of a defense contractor. She has worked for 
her current employer since about January 2023. She served in the U.S. military 
reserves from 1987 until she was honorably discharged in 1994. She earned a 
bachelor’s degree in 1989, and a master’s degree in 1997. She married for the third 
time in 2020 after her first two marriages ended in divorce. She has an adult daughter. 
(Tr. at 10, 31-33; GE 1, 2; AE A) 
Applicant’s first husband lost his job in about 1999. Applicant was hired as an 
assistant manager at a bank in about 2000. She met a woman who, with Applicant’s 
assistance, committed bank fraud, by applying for loans with false Social Security 
numbers. Applicant’s participation was discovered in about 2000 or 2001. She was 
charged with several federal crimes. She cooperated with the FBI against the woman, 
which resulted in a reduced sentence. She pleaded guilty in 2001 and was sentenced to 
imprisonment for five months; home detention for five months; supervised release for 
five years; and about $152,000 in restitution. (Tr. at 41-44; GE 2) 
The SOR did not allege Applicant’s criminal conduct. Any matter that was not 
alleged in the SOR will not be used for disqualification purposes. It may be used in 
assessing Applicant’s credibility, for the affect it has had on her current finances, in the 
application of mitigating conditions, and in the whole-person analysis. 
Applicant discussed the crimes during her background interview in January 2023. 
She stated that she did not realize, at least initially, that the woman was making up 
identities. She stated that she received between $500 and $1,000 in “kickbacks” from 
each loan, which ranged from $10,000 to $30,000. She estimated that she received 
about $152,000 in kickbacks. (GE 2) 
Applicant provided a different description of what happened during her hearing: 
I had lost  my job, too.  And so I  met  a lady  that was in the insurance field  
selling, like, auto  insurance and -- and those types of insurances.  And so  
when I met  her,  I was in a  -- a situation where I  needed money, and she  
said,  “Well, hey, if you refer  people to me to get  -- to get insurance, then  
I’ll give  you a – ” pretty much, it boiled down to a kickback.  And so -- and  
I’m thinking,  “Okay.”   And so when she  did that,  I accepted -- I referred her  
-- referred people that  I knew from the bank  over to her. And I  didn’t know  
that she was just  getting loans in their  names, using them.  And -- and so I  
got caught  up in  that -- that situation.  (Tr. at 42)  
Applicant’s testimony about the nature of the bank fraud and her participation in the 
bank fraud was not credible. 
Applicant accepted some responsibility for her conduct, but she also blamed her 
ex-husband for not making enough money and leaving her open to temptation. She paid 
about $30,000 in restitution up front; she made smaller payments throughout the years; 
2 
 
  
 
 
   
  
     
   
 
 
 
   
 
  
     
  
 
 
 
 
     
 
      
  
 
   
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
   
  
    
     
 
and she withdrew about $85,000 from her pension to pay the remainder in about 2018. 
(Tr. at 41-44; GE 2) 
Applicant lived in State A and worked as an accountant supervisor for a city in 
one of its departments from about 2004 to 2018. She left her job and followed her 
daughter and grandchild to State B in 2018. She was hired as a budget manager in a 
city in State B, but she stated that she “was let go after six months due to lack of 
training and support.” She went through periods of unemployment and 
underemployment. (Tr. at 19-23, 39-40; GE 1, 2; AE A, L, O) 
Applicant took in her daughter and grandchild after her daughter’s partner moved 
back to State A . Her mother moved from State A to Applicant’s home in State B . 
Applicant accepted financial responsibility for her family members, including her mother 
who was not receiving Social Security benefits because her overpayments were being 
recouped. Her mother passed away from COVID -19 in January 2022. (Tr. at 20- 22; AE 
A, F) 
Applicant’s husband is a retired servicemember. He is also a pastor of a church 
that was reopened after being closed for an extended period. He and Applicant are 
attempting to build the congregation. His income from the church was limited while the 
church was growing. (Tr. at 24, 34, 46; AE A) 
Applicant submitted a Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86) in 
December 2022. She did not report any financial issues. (GE 1) 
Applicant was interviewed for her background investigation in January 2023. She 
volunteered that she had accounts that were in collections. She stated that she did not 
report the debts on her SF 86 because she did not find out that they were in collections 
until after she submitted the questionnaire. She discussed the accounts from a January 
2023 credit report. She indicated that she was working with a credit repair company to 
address some of the debts; she denied owing other debts; and she stated her intentions 
to address the remaining debts. (GE 2; AE A, E) 
The SOR alleges 12 delinquent debts in amounts ranging from $157 to $9,734 
and totaling about $36,000. The debts are listed on a January 2023 credit report, an 
October 2023 credit report, or both credit reports. (Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 3, 
4; AE A, B) The following is the status of the SOR debts. 
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges a $9,734 delinquent  debt. The debt was higher. It was for  a  
water softening system for  a home. She had it installed and then stopped making  
payments. Applicant  entered into a payment agreement with the creditor in May  2023,  
when the balance was $10,115. The creditor reinstated the account, and it began  
accruing i nterest again at  the r ate of 7%.  She agreed t o p ay at  least $125 per month.  
She paid $168 in May 2023, followed by  monthly $127 or $125 payments through  
January 2025. She paid a total of $2,575 and reduced the balance to $8,661. (Tr.  at 50-
52; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 3, 4;  AE A,  K)  
 
3 
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
    
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
    
  
  
  
    
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
The creditor for the $5,104 credit card debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.b obtained a 
$6,076 judgment against Applicant. In May 2023, she settled the judgment for $4,860, 
through monthly payments of $162. She paid more than that. By January 2025, she had 
paid $4,266, leaving a balance of $594. (Tr. at 52- 53; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 
3, 4; AE A, C) 
Applicant admitted owing the $3,415 debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.c. She noted that 
the account was “charged off.” This was an unpaid loan from a driving school for her to 
become a truck driver. She received a certificate of completion from the school in July 
2019. She wrote, “I did not pass the driving requirements for truck driving and they stuck 
me with the training costs and I did not find a job to repay, which led to collection 
status.” She also indicated that the school lied to her about where she would be driving. 
She also stated that she had an accident, and she was not making enough money 
driving the truck, so she stopped. She has not made any payments. (Tr. at 23, 53- 55; 
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2-4; AE A, G) 
In her SOR response, Applicant denied owing the $3,607 delinquent debt alleged 
in SOR ¶ 1.d. She asserted that her “credit information was stolen and [she] had to hire 
an attorney to have it removed.” She later stated that she entered into a payment 
agreement through a law firm, with the final payment in April 2023. She provided a 
settlement agreement dated January 4, 2023, in which the creditor agreed to settle the 
debt for $902, payable through two monthly $301 payments and a final $300 payment 
on April 2, 2023. She provided proof of a $300 payment received by the creditor on 
January 25, 2023. She submitted a letter from her attorney dated April 16, 2023, which 
stated:  
Congratulations, your lawsuit has been dismissed!  
 
Currently, your legal matter is resolved, and there is  no settlement  amount  
for  you to pay.  
 
We believe [SOR ¶ 1.d creditor]  dismissed this case because our  
aggressive tactics put  them in a vulnerable position.  Please know that  the  
suit was dismissed without prejudice. This means that another  lawsuit  
could be filed against  you on t  his account until  the four -year statute of  
limitations has expired.  (AE D, S)  
There is nothing in her attorney’s  letter showing a payment agreement or that she made  
any  payments toward the debt. The debt is listed on the January 2023 credit report, but  
not any  of the later credit reports. There is insufficient evidence for a finding that this  
debt  has been resolved. (Tr at 55-57; Applicant’s response to SOR;  GE 2-4; AE A, D, H-
J, N, P, R, S)  
Applicant admitted owing the $3,410 debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.e. She noted that 
the account was “charged off.” The debt was reported by Trans Union on the January 
2023 combined credit report. It is also listed on the January 2025 TransUnion credit 
4 
 
 
    
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
    
   
  
   
 
 
    
     
 
 
 
   
   
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
   
 
  
   
    
   
 
 
   
report. She has not  made any payments. (Tr.  at  58; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE  2-
4; AE A)  
In her 
SOR response, Applicant admitted owing the $2,138 delinquent debt 
alleged in SOR ¶ 1.f. She later denied owing the debt. She stated that her credit repair 
company disputed the debt on her behalf because it was not her debt. She admitted 
owing the debt during her background interview, stating that it was from a payday loan. 
The debt was reported by Equifax on the January 2023 combined credit report. It is 
listed on the January 2025 Equifax credit report as a closed account with a $0 balance 
and the annotation, “pays account as agreed.” (Tr. at 59 -61; Applicant’s response to 
SOR; GE 2, 3; AE A, I) 
Applicant initially denied owing the $753 debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.g because she 
stated that the account was paid, and she presented a page from a credit report. 
However, that credit report entry is for a different account. At her hearing, she admitted 
that she had the SOR account, and she did not remember making any payments. She 
stated that her credit repair company disputed the debt on her behalf, and it was 
removed from her credit report. The debt was listed on the January 2023 credit report, 
but not on any of the later credit reports. There is insufficient evidence for a finding that 
this debt has been resolved. (Tr. at 61- 63; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2-4; AE A, 
I, J, N) 
Applicant  denied owing the debts  alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.h ($363),  1.i ($351), and  
1.j ($268) She stated that her credit repair company disputed the debts  on her behalf,  
and they were removed from her credit report. The debts were listed on the January  
2023 credit report, but not on any of the later credit reports. (Tr. at 63- 66; Applicant’s  
response to S OR; GE 2-4; AE A, I, J, N)  
Applicant stated that she paid the $157 debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.k. The debt was 
listed on the January 2023 credit report, but later credit reports list the debt as a closed 
account with a $0 balance, and the annotation, “paid after charge off/collection.” 
(Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2-4; AE A, I, N) 
Applicant denied owing the $6,696 charged- off auto loan alleged in SOR ¶ 1.l. 
She stated that she “voluntarily returned the vehicle and they sold it for more than [she] 
owed.” She stated that she disputed the debt, and it was removed from her credit report. 
The debt was listed on the January 2023 credit report, but not on any of the later credit 
reports. (Tr. at 67-68; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2-4; AE A, I, J, N) 
Applicant’s husband has cancer. He is on medication and had to have surgery. 
She wanted “to enhance [their] level of living by traveling and experiencing some life 
events such as [their] first cruise, etc.” In about June 2024, she purchased a timeshare 
in a hotel and resort chain giving them access to multiple resort locations. She stated 
that she paid the resort about $5,000 or $6,000. Recent credit reports show a balance 
due of about $17,200. Applicant never used the timeshare. She regretted the decision 
and retained a law firm to help her get out of the contract. The fee for the law firm is 
5 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
      
    
  
 
 
   
  
 
      
   
 
 
   
   
  
   
    
  
 
 
   
   
     
 
      
     
  
    
     
 
    
  
    
    
   
      
about $4,000, in $151 monthly payments. They stopped paying the timeshare. (Tr. at 
24-30, 47-49, 68; AE A, B, M, P, Q) 
Applicant stated that she is in a better financial situation. She has taken several 
personal finance classes. She anticipates her attorney will be able to end her timeshare 
obligations “and recoup what [ she] put into it.” Because she is no longer paying the 
timeshare, she is better able to pay her debts. (Tr. at 29-32, 72-73, 79-82; AE A) 
Policies  
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines (AG ), which became 
effective on June 8, 2017. 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According 
to AG ¶ 2(c), the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables 
known as the “whole -person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all 
available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, 
or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel .” The 
applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters a f iduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
6 
 
   
   
 
 
   
  
     
  
 
 
 
       
 
 
  
    
 
 
   
 
   
  
 
    
    
 
 
 
     
    
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation of potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline F, Financial Considerations  
The security concern for financial considerations is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one ’s means, satisfy debts,  and meet financial  
obligations may  indicate poor  self-control, lack of judgment, or  
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise  
questions about an individual ’s reliability, trustworthiness ,  and ability  to 
protect classified or sensitive information.  Financial distress  can also be  
caused or  exacerbated by,  and thus can be a possible indicator of, other  
issues of personnel security  concern such as excessive gambling,  mental  
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol  abuse or dependence.  An 
individual who is financially overextended is at  greater  risk of having to 
engage in illegal  or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds.   
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) inability to satisfy  debts;  a
 nd  
(c) a hist
ory of not meeting financial obligations. 
Applicant has a history of delinquent debts and financial problems. AG ¶¶ 19(a) 
and 19(c) are applicable. 
Conditions that could mitigate the financial considerations security concerns are 
provided under AG ¶ 20. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
under
 such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast  
doubt  on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good  
judgment;   
(b) the co
nditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely 
beyond the person’ s control (e.g., loss of employment, a business 
downturn, unexpected medical emergency, a death, divorce or separation, 
7 
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
      
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
   
   
 
   
    
  
  
 
 
   
  
 
   
   
  
      
  
   
  
 
   
 
  
clear victimization by predatory lending practices, or identity theft), and the 
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances; 
(c) the individual  has r
 eceived or is receiving financial counseling for the  
problem  from a  legitimate and credible source, such as a non- profit credit  
counseling service,  and there are clear indications  that the problem is  
being resolved or is under control;   
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to  a go od-faith effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  and  
(e) the in
dividual has a reasonable basis to dispute the legitimacy of the 
past-due debt which is the cause of the problem and provides 
documented proof to substantiate the basis of the dispute or provides 
evidence of actions to resolve the issue. 
Applicant went through periods of unemployment and underemployment. She 
took in her daughter, grandchild, and mother. Her mother passed away from COVID -19 
in January 2022. Those events were beyond Applicant’s control. However, it is difficult 
to attribute all her financial difficulties to those events when she had to pay about 
$152,000 in restitution for her financial crimes, including about $85,000 in about 2018. It 
is difficult to imagine that Applicant would have been in the same dire straits if she had 
access to that money. Additionally, for AG ¶ 20 (b) to be applicable, Applicant must 
establish that she acted responsibly under the circumstances. 
Applicant started taking some action on her debts in about May 2023, which was 
before the SOR was issued, but after she was interviewed about her finances for her 
background investigation in January 2023. An applicant who begins to resolve security 
concerns only after having been placed on notice that his or her clearance is in jeopardy 
may lack the judgment and willingness to follow rules and regulations when his or her 
personal interests are not threatened. See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 20 -02971 at 4 (App. 
Bd. Jun. 15, 2023). 
Applicant paid most of the $5,104 credit card debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.b. The 
$2,138 delinquent debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.f is listed on the January 2025 Equifax credit 
report as a closed account with a $0 balance and the annotation, “pays account as 
agreed.” She paid the $157 debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.k. Those three debts are mitigated. 
Applicant denied owing the debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.h ($363), 1.i ($351), 1.j 
($268), and 1.l ($6,696). She stated that her credit repair company disputed the debts, 
and they were removed from her credit report. The debts were listed on the January 
2023 credit report, but not on any of the later credit reports. Those debts are also 
mitigated. 
Applicant asserted that she settled the $3,607 delinquent debt alleged in SOR ¶  
1.d for $902, payable through two monthly $301 payments  and a final $300 payment  on  
April 2,  2023.  She provided proof  of a $300 payment received by the creditor  on  
8 
 
   
   
  
  
    
      
   
   
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
     
   
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
    
   
 
 
    
  
   
     
 
    
   
  
January 25, 2023, but she did not send any proof that she made the remaining 
payments. The Appeal Board has held that “it is reasonable for a Judge to expect 
applicants to present documentation about the satisfaction of specific debts.” See ISCR 
Case No. 09-07091 at 2 (App. Bd. Aug . 11, 2010) (quoting ISCR Case No. 04- 10671 at 
3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2006)). Applicant submitted a letter from her attorney dated April 16, 
2023, stating the lawsuit against her had been dismissed. There is nothing in the letter 
showing a payment agreement or that she made any payments toward the debt. 
Applicant has not established that this debt is resolved. 
The remaining debts are still owed in whole or in part. What cannot be ignored is 
Applicant’s decision to purchase a timeshare in June 2024, which was after she 
received and responded to the SOR. Her husband has cancer, and it is understandable 
that she wanted to make the quality of his life better, but this was not the way to do it, as 
she quickly learned. She spent $5,000 to $6,000 and got nothing in return, and she is 
now paying for an attorney to get her out of that bad decision. 
Applicant’s financial problems are recent and ongoing. I am unable to conclude 
that they will be resolved within a reasonable period. She did not act responsibly under 
the circumstances, and she did not make a good- faith effort to pay all her debts. They 
continue to cast doubt on her current reliability, trustworthiness, and good judgment. 
The above mitigating conditions, individually or collectively, are insufficient to eliminate 
concerns about her finances. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent  to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of  
rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation  
for the conduct; (8) the potential for  pressure, coercion, exploitation,  or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. I have incorporated my 
comments under Guideline F in my whole-person analysis. 
Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts about 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. I conclude Applicant did not 
mitigate the financial considerations security concerns. 
9 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
    
    
     
   
    
 
 
       
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:  
 Agai nst  Applicant  
Subparagraph 1.a:   A gainst  Applicant  
S
ubparagraph 1.b:   For Applicant 
Subparagraphs 1.c-1.e:  Against  Applicant  
Subparagraph 1.f:  For Applicant  
Subparagraph 1.g:  Against  Applicant  
Subparagraphs 1.h-1.l:  For Applicant  
Conclusion  
It is not c
learly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for 
a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Edward W. Loughran 
Administrative Judge 
10 