 
 
                                                              
                             
          
           
             
 
 
     
         
      
    
    
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
     
   
 
 
      
   
  
    
  
    
   
 
    
 
 
______________ 
______
________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
\-\E~/. 
ft 
o .,~ n¥.~lll.; o ~ t 
f 
In the mat
ter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-01523 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Tovah Minster, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
07/17/2025 
Decision 
OLMOS, Bryan J., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to mitigate t he security concerns raised under Guideline F 
(Financial Considerations). Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On September 24, 2024, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement 
of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline F. The DOD 
issued the SOR under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified 
Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 5220.6, 
Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as 
amended (Directive); and the Security Executive Agent Directive 4 (SEAD 4), National 
Security Adjudicative Guidelines (AG), effective June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR on October 1, 2024 (Answer) with explanations and 
requested a hearing before an administrative judge from the Defense Office of Hearings 
and Appeals (DOHA). The hearing convened as scheduled on May 14, 2025 . 
 
 
 
     
   
   
 
 
 
      
    
   
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
    
 
  
   
   
    
  
     
    
   
   
 
 
   
   
  
    
  
  
   
 
Department Counsel offered into evidence Government Exhibits (GX) 1- 3. Applicant 
offered into evidence Applicant Exhibits (AX) A -C. All exhibits were admitted without 
objection. Applicant testified and the record closed at the conclusion of the hearing. 
DOHA received the hearing transcript (Tr.) on May 21, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
In h is Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted all the SOR allegations. His 
admissions are incorporated into my findings of fact. After a review of the pleadings and 
evidence submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact. 
Applicant is  35 y ears old.  He enlisted in the  Navy from  January  2012 through  
January  2016 and was honorably discharged  as an E -5.  He maintained a security  
clearance  while in the Navy without incident.  He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2021.  In  
August 2024, he enrolled full -time in a master’s  program.  At the time of the hearing, he  
estimated he had about another year of stud ies  before completing that program.  (GX 1-
2; Tr. 15-26)   
While in the Navy, Applicant accumulated between $50,000 to $60,000 in credit 
card debt. He described being financially careless and irresponsible during this time as 
he was always helping family and friends, buying gifts, and covering the costs of social 
dinners. He also experienced several difficult situations while in the Navy, including 
being sexually assaulted, that led him to not reenlist. (Answer; GX 2-3; Tr. 19-24, 51-55) 
As his enlistment in the Navy ended in January 2016, Applicant believed that, 
through a friend, he had secured a position with a sales company (Company A) where 
he would earn approximately $70,000 to $100,000 in annual salary. He planned to 
address his debt with the increased salary. However, on starting with the company, he 
realized that his salary was entirely based on sale commissions, and he earned 
significantly less income th an he anticipated. He recalled there were weeks where he 
did not receive any pay, and his financial situation worsened. By mid-2016, he was 
barely able to make minimum payments on his accounts and some accounts became 
delinquent. (Answer; GX 1-2; AX C; Tr. 25-28) 
In the fall of 2016, Applicant contacted a debt consolidation company. He could 
not recall the name of the company, but stated he enrolled in a debt relief program 
(DRP) and was advised to stop paying on all his debts. He stopped paying on his credit 
card accounts and began paying the company about $400- $600 per month with the 
understanding that the company would work to resolve his delinquent accounts. 
However, after about three months, he could no longer afford the payments into the 
DRP and stopped the program. He did not renew making any payments to the creditors 
after the DRP terminated. (Answer; GX 1-2; AX C; Tr. 27-33) 
2 
 
 
 
    
  
  
    
     
 
     
   
  
  
 
   
 
 
    
   
  
   
     
   
   
 
   
  
    
   
    
 
 
   
  
  
   
 
  
  
   
 
   
   
  
   
In about November 2016, Applicant secured employment with a retail sales 
company (Company B) . While his income was still partially based on commission s, 
sales were more consistent, and he estimated he averaged about $50,000 in annual 
salary. He recalled that this salary was sufficient to maintain his budget and he did not 
experience any new delinquent accounts. (Answer; GX 1-2; AX C; Tr. 21-22, 51-52) 
In 2017, Applicant contacted the creditor for the accounts associated with SOR 
allegations ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b to resolve the accounts through partial payment. However, no 
agreement was reached, and he did not make any payments on the accounts. Although 
he continued to receive correspondence and phone calls from the creditor and 
collection agencies, he made no further attempt to resolve the accounts. Additionally, he 
made no effort to resolve the account associated with SOR allegation ¶ 1.c . (Tr. 20-33, 
52-55) 
Apart from an extended break in 2022, when he lived overseas with a friend for 
about six months , Applicant continued to work in varying capacit ies with Company B 
through 2023. In about January 2024, h e began working with a defense contractor 
(Company C) at his current location and his salary increased to about $60,000 annually. 
In about August 2024, his position migrated to his current employer (Company D) , and 
he is now a project manager. His starting salary with Company D was $75,000. In 
December 2024, his salary increased to $80,000. (GX 1-2; AX C; Tr. 19-23, 35-38) 
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) in October 2023 and 
disclosed his delinquent debts . He admitted that he “completely ignored them back 
when the issue first arose and, out of shame, [he] never answered the phone to an 
unknown caller after that.” He noted h e had kept his more recent accounts current and 
that the delinquent accounts had started to fall off his credit reports. (GX 1) 
During his February 2024 background interview with a DOD investigator, 
Applicant affirmed his awareness of his delinquent debts and provided details of the 
accounts. He stated his intention to not pay the debts and allow them to become 
unenforceable under the statute of limitations. Beyond those accounts that became 
delinquent in 2016, he believed his financial situation was good and he was able to 
maintain a monthly budget. (GX 2) 
In his September 2024 response to interrogatories, Applicant noted that the 
delinquent accounts from 2016 had since “dropped off” his credit report. He confirmed 
that he had no other delinquent accounts. (GX 2) 
In his October 2024 Answer to the SOR, Applicant again stated he was 
irresponsible and careless as a young adult when he accumulated his delinquent debts. 
He had initially hoped to resolve the accounts when he started earning a good salary 
with Company A after his discharge from the Navy . Instead, he “fell deeper into debt” 
3 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
     
 
  
   
     
     
     
   
   
     
 
 
 
        
   
   
  
     
 
 
    
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
and sought debt consolidation. Although he stopped paying into the DRP quickly after 
initiating the plan, he never renewed payments on his delinquent accounts. He stated, 
“searches on the internet advised me to just lay low for 7 years and then everything 
would go away, and that’s what I did.” He further noted that his income had increased 
substantially since working with Company D and that he was saving to purchase a 
house. (Answer) 
Applicant testified that he was “ashamed” as to how he handled the delinquent 
debts but acknowledged he had not done anything to resolve them . When asked why 
he never attempted to pay the debts, he stated that once his credit was negatively 
impacted, he did not see the benefit in resolving them and planned to let the accounts 
be removed from his credit reports over time. He stated that, by the time he received the 
SOR, the accounts had been removed from his credit reports and he no longer had any 
delinquent accounts. Beyond some general financial classes he took in the Navy, he 
never received any financial counseling. (AX A-B; Tr. 20-22, 40-56) 
Applicant  testified  that his financial situation has improved  over time. In addition  
to his current annual  salary of $80,000,  he receives  about $1,300 in monthly benefits  
based on a 6 0%  disability rating in relation  to his military service.  In August 2024, he 
also began receiving a $1,100 stipend, as part of his  GI Bill  benefits  through the  
Department  of Veterans Affairs, to support  his ongoing studies. His student loans were  
forgiven,  and he stated he  is  contributing about  20%  of his income into a retirement  
account.  Nonetheless, he also admitted to traveling extensively with friends  and  
maintaining  about  $20,000 in current credit card debt. Although he had no plan to  
address the SOR debts, he was committed to paying off  his  current  credit  cards.  (AX A-
B; Tr. 34-50)  
Applicant further noted that, prior to the issuance of the SOR, he had held a 
security clearance without incident. He noted that the debts from the SOR were nearly a 
decade old and that he had shown he was able to be financially responsible. Further, he 
described being a strong asset and contributor to his company and believed he had 
exhibited the trustworthiness necessary to hold a security clearance. (AX C; Tr. 50-55) 
Policies  
It is well established that no one has a right to a security clearance. As the 
Supreme Court held in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent standard 
indicates that security determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” 
484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988) 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
   
 
   
 
 
     
    
   
  
 
 
 
 
    
   
    
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
     
 
  
   
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 
2(a), the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as 
the “whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, 
reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in 
making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I 
have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the 
evidence contained in the record. Likewise, I have not drawn inferences grounded on 
mere speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation of potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Analysis  
Guideline  F, Financial Considerations  
The security concern for financial considerations is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one ’s means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
5 
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
 
   
 
    
   
  
      
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
      
    
  
      
     
   
 
    
   
   
  
     
  
     
   
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual ’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
The financial security concern is broader than the possibility that an individual 
might knowingly compromise classified information to raise money. It encompasses 
concerns about an individual’s self -control, judgment, and other qualities essential to 
protecting classified information. An individual who is financially irresponsible may also 
be irresponsible, unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding classified 
information. See ISCR Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012) 
The adjudicative guideline notes several conditions that could raise security 
concerns under AG ¶ 19. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a) inability to satisfy  d
 ebts;  
(b) unw illingness  to satisfy debts regardless of the ability to do so;  and  
(c) a history of not  m eeting financial  obligations.  
Wh
ile enlisted in the Navy from 2012 through January 2016, Applicant accrued 
substantial credit card debt. He then experienced continued financial difficulties when 
he received a salary significantly less than expected while working with Company A. 
However, after a brief effort to settle his debts through a DRP in 2016 and some 
communication with the creditor in 2017, he made no further attempt to resolve his 
delinquent accounts. Although his salary increased over time, he prioritized other 
financial goals and chose to not resolve his delinquent debts. Security concerns under 
AG ¶¶ 19(a), 19(b) and 19(c) are applicable. 
Once disqualifying conditions are established, an applicant has the burden of 
presenting evidence to refute, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the security concerns 
arising from those debts. See ISCR 20-03146 at 3 (App. Bd. June 6, 2022). The fact 
that a debt no longer appears on a credit report does not establish any meaningful, 
independent evidence as to the disposition of the debt. See ISCR Case No. 14-03612 at 
3 (App. Bd. Aug. 15, 2015). An applicant’s reliance on the statute of limitations does not 
constitute a good-faith effort to resolve debts. See ISCR Case No. 14 -01231 at 3 (App. 
Bd. Feb. 10, 2015). Debts that are barred by the statute of limitations or have been 
6 
 
 
 
 
     
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
   
  
   
  
     
  
  
 
  
 
   
 
removed from a credit report may still be considered in what they reveal about an 
applicant’s security worthiness. See ISCR Case No. 21-00748 (App. Bd. June 2, 2022). 
I have considered the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20, and the following are 
potentially applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
und
er such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast  
doubt  on the individual ’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good  
judgment;  
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely  
bey
ond the p erson’s  control  (e.g.,  loss of employment, a business  
downturn, unexpected medical  emergency,  a death, divorce or  separation,  
clear victimization by predatory lending practices,  or identity theft), and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
(c) the individual  has  received or is receiving financial counseling for the  
problem from  a legitimate and credible source, such as a non- profit credit  
counseling service,  and there are clear indications  that the problem is  
being resolved or is under control;  
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- f aith effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  and  
(e) the individual has  a r easonable basis to  dispute the legitimacy  of the 
past-due debt  which i s  the c ause of the problem  and provides  
documented proof to  substantiate the basis of the dispute or provides  
evidence of actions to resolve the issue.  
Appl
icant’s financial difficulties began wh en he was young and financially 
irresponsible while in the Navy from 2012 through 2016. His financial difficulties 
continued as he failed to receive the income he had anticipated earning with Com pany 
A in 2016. Beyond the delinquent debts accumulated during that time, he has been able 
to manage his finances and kept his current credit card debt in good standing. The 
debts referenced in the SOR originated several years ago and were infrequent. His 
salary difficulties with Company A were also largely beyond his control. Mitigation under 
AG ¶¶ 20(a) and 20(b) must be considered. 
However, beyond a brief attempt to resolve his debts through a DRP in 2016 and 
some communications with a creditor in 2017, Applicant never attempted to repay his 
delinquent debts. Instead, he chose to ignore the debts until they were eventually 
unenforceable under the statute of limitations. This does not constitute a good- faith 
7 
 
 
 
   
   
    
   
 
   
   
   
    
  
   
  
  
  
   
 
 
  
 
    
  
 
 
  
  
     
 
 
   
  
 
   
 
     
effort to resolve his debts. Additionally, he has not established that he is contesting the 
legitimacy of any of the debts, only their enforceability within the statute of limitations. 
AG ¶ ¶ 20(d) and 20(e) are not applicable. He has not received sufficient financial 
counseling for mitigation under AG ¶ 20(c) to be applicable. 
Applicant’s financial circumstances slowly began to improve when he started with 
Company B in 2017. In January 2024, he received an increased salary with Company C 
and has continued to earn a salary with Company D that allows him to maintain a 
budget while saving for retirement and the eventual purchase of a house. However, I 
am unable to find that he acted responsibly under the circumstances or that he made a 
good-faith effort to pay his debts. He has prioritized his future financial goals at the cost 
of his past creditors. His decision to not address his delinquent debt for nearly a decade 
continues to cast doubt on his current reliability, trustworthiness, and judgment. 
Mitigation under AG ¶¶ 20(a) and 20(b) is not applicable and n one of the mitigating 
conditions fully resolve the security concerns. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent  to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of  
rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation  
for the conduct; (8) the potential for  pressure, coercion, exploitation,  or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
the facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments 
under Guideline F in my whole-person analysis. 
Applicant’s circumstances have improved since his time in the Navy and while 
working with Company A. Beyond those debts accumulated through 2016, he has not 
experienced any new delinquent accounts and is more mindful of his financial 
8 
 
 
 
   
      
  
 
 
  
  
 
     
   
    
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
circumstances. However, he allowed several delinquent accounts to remain unresolved 
for years and has not yet established a sufficient track record of responsible action to 
mitigate the financial considerations security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  G
 uideline F:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
S
ubparagraph 1.a-1.c:  Against Applicant 
Conclusion  
In l
ight of all of the circumstances, it is not clearly consistent with the national 
interest to grant Applicant a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified 
information is denied. 
Bryan J. Olmos 
Administrative Judge 
9 