 
 
 
  
 
               DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
     DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS  
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                    
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
            
        
  
 
 
       
         
      
            
         
       
      
  
       
           
              
      
 
______________ 
______________ 
In the  matter of:   )  
 )   
    )     ISCR Case No.  24-00902  
   )  
Applicant for Security Clearance   )  
Appearances  
For Government: Jeff Kent, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
02/03/2025 
Decision  
Curry, Marc E., Administrative Judge: 
Although Applicant’s financial problems were caused, in part, by circumstances 
beyond his control, he did not present any evidence of what progress he has made to 
resolve them. Under these circumstances, Applicant failed to mitigate the financial 
considerations security concerns. His application for a security clearance is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On July 3, 2024, the Department of Defense Counterintelligence and Security 
Agency Consolidated Adjudication s Services (DCSA CA S) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing sec urity concerns under Guideline F , financial 
considerations, explaining why it was unable to find it clearly consistent with the national 
security to grant security clearance eligibility . The DCSA CAS took the action under 
Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry 
(February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of Defense ( DOD) Directive 5220.6, 
Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as 
amended (Directive); and the National Adjudicative Guidelines (AG) effective for any 
adjudication made on or after Ju ne 8, 2017. On July 24, 2024, Applicant answered the 
SOR, admitting all the allegations and requesting a decision based on the evidence in the 
file rather than a hearing. On August 21, 2024, Department Counsel prepared a File of 
1 
 
 
 
          
        
  
 
  
          
   
  
 
        
      
 
 
       
       
          
            
         
          
     
           
     
 
   
          
         
      
        
     
  
 
Relevant Material (FORM), setting  forth  the  Government’s arguments against  Applicant’s  
security clearance-worthiness. The  FORM  contains  seven  attachments, identified  as Item  
1 through Item  7.   
Applicant received a copy of the FORM on September 5, 2024, He was given 30 
days to file a response. Applicant did not file a response, whereupon the case was 
assigned to me on December 6, 2024. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 49-year-old married man He is a high school graduate and has 
earned some college credits. Since June 2020, he has been working as a cable harness 
technician.(Item 2 at 12-14) 
Per the SOR, Applicant incurred approximately $28,000 of delinquent debt. Of the 
24 debts alleged, the Government withdrew two of them (subparagraphs 1.w and 1.x) 
because they are duplicates of subparagraphs 1.m and 1.f, respectively. 
Applicant attributes the incurrence of his delinquent debts to several circumstances 
beyond his control , including a job loss, his mother’s cancer diagnosis, unexpected job 
transfers that required frequent relocations, and his wife’s shopping addiction. (Item 4 at 
12; Item 7 at 2) During an interview in August 2023 with an investigative agent, he stated 
that his wife’s shopping addiction had been resolved, and that he did not anticipate any 
more abrupt relocations. (Item 7 at 4) Moreover, he stated that per his budget, he had 
approximately $8,000 of monthly discretionary income available to resolve debt, and that 
he anticipated satisfying all of his delinquencies through payment plans within 12 months. 
(Item 7 at 5) 
In February 202 4, approximately six months after Applicant’s investigative 
interview, he completed a set of interrogatories from DCSA CAS. He had not begun 
making any payments on his delinquent debts. In addition, he provided an updated written 
copy of his budget, under which he had $3,570 in monthly discretionary income. (Item 4 
at 13) Currently, all the debts remain outstanding, and Applicant has presented no 
evidence of what, if any, steps he has taken to resolve them. 
Policies  
The  U.S. Supreme  Court has recognized  the  substantial discretion  the  Executive  
Branch  has in regulating  access to  information  pertaining  to  national security,  
emphasizing  that  “no  one  has  a  ‘right’  to  a  security clearance.” Department  of the  Navy  
v. Egan, 484  U.S. 518, 528  (1988).  When  evaluating  an  applicant’s suitability for a  security  
clearance, the  administrative  judge  must  consider the  adjudicative  guidelines.  In  addition  
to  brief  introductory explanations for each  guideline, the  adjudicative  guidelines list  
potentially disqualifying  conditions and  mitigating  conditions, which  are  required  to  be  
considered  in eval uating  an  applicant’s eligibility for access to  classified  information.  
These  guidelines are not inflexible  rules of  law. Instead, recognizing  the  complexities of  
2 
 
 
            
       
        
     
      
    
 
     
    
         
       
      
        
         
       
          
 
 
      
        
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
            
human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the factors listed in the 
adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overa ll adjudicative goal is a fair, 
impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a ), the entire process is a 
conscientious scrutiny of several variables known as the “whole-person concept.” The 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 1(d ) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present 
evidence to establish controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, 
the applicant is responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, 
explain, extenuate, or mitigate facts admitted by applicant o r proven by Department 
Counsel. . ..” The applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable 
security decision. 
Under the whole -person concept, the administrative judge must consider the 
totality of an applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances considering the nine 
adjudicative process factors in AG ¶ 2(d). They are as follows: 
(1) the  nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct;  
(2) the  circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable 
participation;  
(3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;   
(4) the individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct;  
(5) the  extent to which participation is voluntary;  
(6) the  presence  or  absence  of rehabilitation  and  other permanent  
behavioral changes;  
(7) the  motivation for the conduct;   
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and   
(9) the likelihood  of continuation  or recurrence.  
Analysis  
Guideline F:  Financial Considerations  
Under this concern, “failure to  live  within one’s means, satisfy debts,  and  meet  
financial obligations  may indicate  poor self-control, lack of judgment,  or unwillingness  to  
abide  by  rules and   regulations, all  of  which  can  raise  questions  about an  individual’s 
reliability, trustworthiness, and  ability to  protect classified  or sensitive  information.” (AG ¶  
18)  
Applicant’s history of financial problems triggers the application of AG ¶ 19(a), 
“inability to satisfy debts,” and AG ¶ 19(c), “a history of not meeting financial obligations.” 
3 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
       
       
        
       
         
     
     
        
        
 
 
 
     
        
  
 
 
       
    
 
     
 
      
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 are potentially applicable: 
(b) the  conditions  that resulted  in the  financial problem  were  largely  beyond  
the  person’s control (e.g.,  loss of employment,  a  business downturn,   
unexpected  medical emergency,  a  death, divorce, or separation, clear  
victimization  by predatory lending  practices, or identity  theft), and  the  
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances; and   
(d) the  individual initiated  and  is adhering  to  a  good-faith  effort to  repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.  
Applicant attributed his delinquent debt to several circumstances beyond his 
control, including his wife’s shopping addiction, frequent relocations, a job loss, and his 
mother’s major illness. However, despite promising to satisf y his delinquent debts by 
August 2024, he has yet to provide any evidence of steps tak en to organize his debts, 
reach out to creditors, and to begin paying them. Under these circumstances, AG ¶ 20(d) 
is inapplicable and AG ¶ 20(b) is only applicable insofar as circumstances beyond 
Applicant’s control contributed to his financial problems. Absent any evidence of steps 
taken to pay the delinquencies, and considering the length of time that these debts have 
remained delinquent, I conclude Applicant has failed to mitigate the financial 
considerations security concerns. 
Whole-Person Concept  
I considered the whole-person concept factors in my analysis of the disqualifying 
and mitigating conditions, discussed above, and they do not warrant a favorable 
conclusion. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline F:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a  –  1.v:  Against Applicant 
Subparagraphs1.w –  1.x: WITHDRAWN  
4 
 
 
     
 
       
    
  
 
 
 
 
   
_____________________ 
Conclusion  
Considering all the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant Applicant eligibility for a 
security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Marc E. Curry 
Administrative Judge 
5 