 
 
 
       DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
   DEFENSE  OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS      
           
             
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
      
    
 
  
   
    
   
   
  
   
   
 
    
 
  
  
 
  
    
___________ 
___________ 
In the matter of:  )  
 )  
              )   ISCR Case No. 24-00073  
  )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance   )  
Appearances  
For Government: Cassie L. Ford, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Sean D. Rogers, Esq. 
04/23/2025 
Decision  
HARVEY, Mark, Administrative Judge: 
Security concerns arising under Guideline J (criminal conduct) are mitigated. 
However, Guidelines I ( psychological conditions ) and E (personal conduct) security 
concerns are not mitigated. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On January 26, 2024, Applicant completed and signed an Electronic 
Questionnaires for Investigations Proces sing (e-QIP) or security clearance application 
(SCA). (Government Exhibit (GE) 1) On April 12, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence 
and Security Agency (DCSA) issued a statement of reasons (SOR) to Applicant under 
Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry, 
February 20, 1960; Department of Defense ( DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial 
Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (Directive), January 2, 1992; and Security 
Executive Agent Directive 4, establishing in Appendix A the National Security Adjudicative 
Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to 
Hold a Sensitive Position (AGs), effective June 8, 2017. (Hearing Exhibit (HE) 2) 
The SOR detailed reasons why the DCSA did not find under the Directive that it is 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant or continue a security 
clearance for Applicant and recommended referral to an administrative judge to 
determine whether a clearance should be granted, continued, denied, or revoked. 
Specifically, the SOR set forth security concerns arising under Guidelines I, J, and E. (HE 
1 
 
 
 
  
 
     
 
     
     
   
   
     
     
 
 
  
 
 
        
     
   
   
 
       
    
    
  
  
  
 
     
  
      
     
 
      
   
     
    
   
    
 
  
   
 
    
      
2) On August 26,  2024, Applicant  provided a response to t he SOR  and requested a  
hearing. (HE 3) On November 8, 2024, Department Counsel was ready to proceed.    
On December 11, 2024, the case was assigned to me. On December 13, 2024, 
the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a notice, s cheduling the 
hearing for February 11, 2025. (HE 1) The hearing was held as scheduled. 
Department Counsel offered eight exhibits into evidence; Applicant offered 18 
exhibits into evidence; there were no objections; and I admitted all proffered exhibits into 
evidence. (Transcript (Tr.) 6, 13- 15; GE 1 -GE 8; Applicant Exhibits (A E) A- AE R) On 
February 24, 2025, DOHA received a transcript of the hearing. Applicant provided one 
exhibit after his hearing, which was admitted into evidence without objection. (AE S) The 
record closed on February 25, 2025. (Tr. 155-156) 
Some details were excluded to protect Applicant’s right to privacy. Specific 
information is available in the cited exhibits and transcript. 
Findings of Fact  
The allegations are alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, 1.c, 1.d, 2.a, 2.b, 3.a, 3.b, and 3.c. 
(HE 3) In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted, partially admitted, partially denied, and 
denied the SOR allegations in whole or in part. His admissions are accepted as findings 
of fact. Additional findings follow. 
Applicant is 40 years old. (Tr. 50) In 2011, he received an associate degree in 
computer information systems -network administration. (AE K) In 2015, he received a 
bachelor’s degree in computer networking, and he has completed 75 percent of the 
credits on a master’s degree in information technology management. (Tr. 29, 50; AE K ; 
AE S) He has a 3.945 grade point average in his master’s degree program. (AE S) He 
expects to complete his master’s degree in the summer of 2025. (Tr. 29) He plans to 
continue his education and complete a Ph.D. in technology and a master’s degree in 
business administration. (Tr. 29) He has multiple IT certifications. (AE L) His resume 
provides additional details about his professional background. (AE M) He has never had 
a work-related security infraction or incident. (Tr. 39) In 2003, he married. (Tr. 50, 124) 
He has an adult son and a 17-year-old daughter. (Tr. 51, 124) 
Applicant served in the Army from 2002 to 2006. (Tr. 16) His military occupational 
specialty (MOS) was cannon crewmember (13B). (Tr. 16) He also served as a chemical, 
biological, radiological, and nuclear (CBRN) noncommissioned officer (NCO). (Tr. 17) In 
April 2024, a coworker was killed in a vehicle accident ; in June 2004, Applicant was 
injured by incoming mortar fire; and he received a Purple Heart medal. (Tr. 17-18) A piece 
of shrapnel was embedded in his forehead, and his eardrum was perforated. (Tr. 94) 
Applicant was traumatized by his tour in Iraq. (Tr. 18) He received an end of tour award 
of an Army Commendation Medal (ARCOM). (Tr. 94) He said his DD Form 214 does not 
include the ARCOM and an Army Good Conduct Medal. (Tr. 94; AE J) 
Applicant received nonjudicial punishment (NJP) under Article 15, Uniform Code 
of Military Justice. (Tr. 51) He said it was due to “forgetting to set an alarm clock for a 
2 
 
 
 
 
      
       
     
  
 
      
   
        
  
  
 
      
    
 
 
     
   
   
 
   
   
 
    
     
     
    
 
 
   
     
     
  
     
 
specified time for  a major, and which raised a slew of issues .” (Tr. 51) He was punished 
for missing movement. (Tr. 95) He received a reduction from specialist to private first  
class,  forfeiture of  half  a month’s pay for two  months (suspended),  and 15 days of extra  
duty. (Tr. 95) In early  2006, he received another Article 15 for failure to be at appointed  
place of  duty. (Tr. 96)  He received a reduction from  private first class to private (E-2). (Tr.  
96) He also had financial problems due to the loss  pay associated with the reductions in  
rank. (Tr. 96) His discharge also related to financial issues. (Tr.  51)  He  received a general  
discharge under  honorable conditions  for pattern of misconduct. (Tr. 51; AE J)  He has a  
100 percent disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). (Tr. 52; AE I )  
Seventy percent of  his disability rating is for  post-traumatic stress disorder  (PTSD). (Tr.  
124)  He initially received a VA  disability rating in 2006. (Tr. 52)   
Psychological Conditions  
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges from about 2009 through 2012, Applicant received treatment at 
a VA clinic for anxiety and anger issues. He was diagnosed with PTSD and prescribed 
the medication Sertraline as part his treatment. He stopped attending treatment due to 
his work schedule. 
Applicant admitted SOR ¶ 1.a was accurate. (Tr. 52) He did not receive treatment 
from about 2012 to 2014 because he was busy attending college and due to his 
employment. (Tr. 22-23) He attended a mental health appointment every three months to 
continue his prescription, and he said he was unable to go to his appointments in 2012 
due to his work schedule. (Tr. 53) He stopped taking his prescription medication. (Tr. 53) 
SOR ¶ 1.b alleges from about 2014 through 2015, Applicant received treatment at 
a VA clinic for anxiety, anger, and PTSD issues. He was prescribed Sertraline. He 
stopped attending treatment in 2015. 
In 2014, Applicant was employed at the VA, and this enabled him to resume mental 
health treatment. (Tr. 23, 53 -54) The VA prescribed Sertraline for him for symptoms 
related to PTSD . (Tr. 24) He stopped receiving treatment at the VA because he was 
transferred to a different city, and he did not like the VA services in the new city. (Tr. 25) 
He stopped taking Sertraline when he stopped treatment in 2015. (Tr. 55-56) He did not 
receive medical advice to stop taking Sertraline. (Tr. 56) 
SOR ¶ 1.c alleges in about 2020, related to Applicant’s court matter referenced in 
SOR ¶ 2.a, Applicant began treatment for anxiety and anger issues at a non-VA health 
care clinic. He was diagnosed with PTSD. He failed to consistently follow his medical 
provider’s recommended treatment plan when he s topped taking his prescribed 
medication. 
Applicant received treatments at the non-VA clinic to treat his symptoms from 2020 
to present. (Tr. 26-27) He voluntarily resumed treatment before the court ordered him to 
receive treatment. (Tr. 57) At first, he was prescribed medications. (Tr. 27) A medication 
side effect of drowsiness was a problem for him. (Tr. 27) He said his psychiatrist agreed 
with Applicant that he could proceed with treatment without medications. (Tr. 28) 
3 
 
 
    
     
      
  
     
   
     
       
      
  
      
    
 
  
    
    
      
     
 
  
 
    
   
    
 
     
    
     
   
 
 
   
  
  
   
 
    
   
      
 
 
    
   
 
    
   
  
 
SOR ¶ 1.d alleges in October 2023, a licensed psychologist evaluated his mental 
health and diagnosed Applicant with PTSD, which he said is a condition that inherently 
presents a threat to his judgment and reliability. The psychologist wrote that his history is 
marked by several adverse situations where negative behaviors were triggered by 
symptoms inherent within his diagnosis. Applicant’s engagement in mental health 
treatment has produced some positive results with the most benefit coming from his 
compliance with psychiatric medications. However, he has not been using medications 
since 2022 despite his own admission that he received significant relief of his symptoms 
and that his most recent arrest likely would not have occurred if he had been taking his 
psychiatric medications. The evaluator concluded that based upon the available evidence 
and his own reporting, Applicant met the criteria for PTSD and his judgement and 
reliability are vulnerable when he experienced the inherent symptoms. 
In 2021, Applicant engaged in some altercations with his daughter. (Tr. 63-64; GE 
4 at 55) She is on the autism spectrum. (Tr. 64) His spouse was unemployed, and his 
daughter’s medical bills caused family stress. (Tr. 65) He also experienced stress from 
holding three jobs. (Tr. 64; GE 4 at 48) Currently, he continues to have problems with his 
daughter yelling and being oppositional to authority and his attempts to calm her. (Tr. 72) 
In March 2022, Applicant was struggling with treatment. (Tr. 62; GE 4 at 48) He 
attributed his difficulties with a failure to “mesh” with his therapist. (Tr. 62) In May of 2024, 
he transitioned from that therapist to his current therapist. (Tr. 63) Applicant received 
some benefit from medications, and he believed he took the medications as prescribed. 
(Tr. 22) In 2023 and 2024, Applicant received treatment at a non -VA clinic. (Tr. 21) 
Applicant believed his most recent treatment regimen was more effective t han 
medications. (Tr. 20) He did not believe his PTSD has been a barrier to his successful 
employment. (Tr. 31) He admitted that he was inconsistent in his use of his prescribed 
medications. (Tr. 61) When he was taking medications, his lapses from taking 
medications were about two or three days. (Tr. 69) He believed his mental health 
improved due to behavioral therapy. (Tr. 62) 
Applicant disagreed with SOR ¶ 1.d because he d oes not believe he is a security 
risk, and his current treatment program without medication is better for him. (Tr. 66) He 
started his current treatment in May of 2024. (Tr. 67) Currently, he sees a licensed clinical 
social worker once a week for an hour , and he attends a 90- minute group session. (Tr. 
68-69) The focus is on talk and knowledge therapy. (Tr. 69) He does not take any 
medications. (Tr. 69) In 2023 and 2024, he went to numerous appointment s at a 
community mental health center with a licensed master’s degree-level social worker. (AE 
E; AE S) Typically , he went to three or four appointments per month. ( Tr. 69-70; AE E; 
AE S) 
On October 30, 2023, Dr. S, a psychologist evaluated Applicant’s mental health at 
the request of DCSA. The report’s prognosis states: 
Applicant carries a diagnosis of PTSD, which is a condition that inherently 
presents a threat to his judgment and reliability. His history is marked by 
several adverse situations where negative behaviors were triggered by 
symptoms inherent within his diagnosis. This is evidenced as early as the 
4 
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
   
   
   
 
     
   
    
 
  
 
    
 
 
     
  
    
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
    
   
    
    
    
   
  
  
      
  
warning period in his Army enlistment when he acted in ways that were 
detrimental to his service and resulted in him being released on a “pattern 
of misconduct”. Both of his prior arrests occurred after he experienced 
anger and reacted in an excessive manner. His engagement in mental 
health treatment has produced some positive results with the most benefit 
coming from his compliance with psychiatric medications. However, 
[Applicant] has not been using medications since 2022 despite his own 
admission that he receives significant relief of his symptoms and that his 
most recent arrest likely would not have occurred if he had been using his 
psychiatric medications. Based upon the available evidence and 
[Applicant’s] own reporting, it is apparent that [Applicant] meets criteria for 
the diagnosis listed above and that his judgement and reliability are 
vulnerable when he experiences the inherent symptoms. (GE 3 at 5) 
In April 2024, a mental health evaluator completed a report discussing Applicant’s 
mental health status. (AE F) The evaluator interviewed Applicant and conducted 
psychological testing. The report states: 
Summary 
There appears to be evidence of trauma, evidence of relationship discord, 
evidence of poor distress tolerance, evidence of rigidity of thinking and a 
tendency to be reactive, along with evidence of some personality 
dysfunction, particularly some narcissistic tendencies. There does not 
appear to be a lot of evidence of significant mental health diagnoses related 
to mood, behavior, or thought dysfunction. 
Diagnosis(es): 
F43.10 Post-traumatic Stress Disorder 
F60.9 Unspecified Personality Disorder (Turbulent) Style 
Recommendations: 
1. It is highly recommended that  [
 Applicant  continue]  to participate i n  
individual  and/or group t herapy.  It  appears that  [he]  could benefit from  
continued focus on building s kills in coping with distress,  managing 
impulses, improving interpersonal skills, improving personal insight,  
processing past  experiences, and addressing current stressors.  
2. DST-focused interv entions  may be helpful for  [him].  (AE F  at 4)  
Appli
cant had difficulty controlling his anger and handling stress. For example, on 
August 2, 2024, his therapist noted, “Client reporting 4/5 x 3 days for urges to hurt the 
dog. Engaged in this behavior x 3 days this week .” (AE S at 21) “Completed BCA for 
hitting the dog. Identified prompting event, vulnerability factors, and outcomes. ” Id. On 
August 22, 2024, his therapist noted, “Reporting 4/5 for urges to hit the dog x 2 days this 
week. Engaged in this behavior.” Id. at 30. “Completed BCA for hitting the dog. Identified 
prompting event, vulnerability factors, outcomes. ” Id. On September 20, 2024, a note 
indicates, “Reporting 3/5 for urges towards physical and verbal aggression x 1 day this 
week. Engaged in this behx by disciplining the dog. ” Id. at 39. On October 11, 2024, the 
therapist counseling Applicant said: 
5 
 
 
 
  
   
 
    
 
  
  
  
    
 
      
 
  
 
 
    
 
  
   
      
  
 
      
  
 
 
 
      
    
     
     
     
   
  
The client discussed his ongoing frustration with his dog not obeying 
commands, indicating a pattern of the client ’s goals being blocked leading 
to increased agitation. The client discussed frustration with his dog 
disobeying, which leads to increased stress and occasional outbursts of 
anger. The client reported concerns about his daughter's chronic pain 
symptoms and his difficulty getting her tested for a possible genetic 
condition or disorder. His search for answers has been complicated by 
health system bureaucracy and his daughter's school absences. The client 
mentioned he and his wife’s occasional disagreement about how to handle 
their daughter's reluctance to move due to her chronic pain symptoms. This 
is causing strain on his relationship. (AE S at 46) 
The two objectives repeatedly noted for his therapy were: 
I want to learn at least 3 distress tolerance skills in order to lower urges 
towards anger impulses from 3/5 to 1/5 over the next 3 months. 
I will learn at least 3 mindfulness strategies in order to focus on practicing 
how to observe body sensations when in higher states of stress in order to 
decrease urges towards anger impulses. (See, e.g., AE S at 75, 78, 81, 84, 
87, 90, 93, 96) 
At some sessions, the therapist noted “Moderate Improvement” for the two goals. (See, 
e.g., AE S at 75, 78, 84, 90, 93, 96) At other sessions, the therapist noted “No Change” 
or “Slight Improvement.” (See, e.g., AE S at 81, 87) 
Applicant has gotten physical  towards his spouse and daughter. (Tr. 74; AE F) He  
believed in corporal punishment of his  daughter; however,  his spouse opposed corporal  
punishment. (Tr. 75) He uses a different  approach for discipline of his daughter now. (Tr.  
76) The main stressor in his  life is  his daughter. (Tr. 77)  
Criminal Conduct  
SOR ¶ 2. a alleges in about January 2021, Applicant pleaded nolo contendre to 
misdemeanor endangering a c hild, and two counts of misdemeanor battery. He was 
sentenced to 12 months of jail on the endangerment charge and six months on each 
battery charge to run consecutively for a 24- month sentence. His jail sentence was 
suspended in lieu of 12 months of supervised probation. Applicant was ordered to 
complete a mental health evaluation, parenting class, and anger management class. 
In October 2020,  Applicant  was unemployed.  (Tr.  37) A noncommissioned officer  
he knew in Iraq committed suicide. (Tr. 37)  Applicant  was distraught and overwhelmed.  
(Tr.  38) He told his  14-year-old son to mow  the yard.  (Tr. 31 , 99-100)  His son started  
complaining, and Applicant  thought his son was being insubordinate. (Tr. 99) His son  
went  to his  bedroom. (Tr. 100) Applicant  went to his son’s bedroom  and told him to  mow  
the yard again. (Tr.  100) His son refused, and he  hit his son  with his belt  twice.  (Tr. 32, 
100)  His son punched Applicant  in the face, knocking him to the floor . (Tr. 32 , 100 )  
6 
 
 
 
     
    
     
       
 
 
 
    
   
    
  
 
   
     
      
  
 
    
     
    
 
 
Applicant  got  up and hit  his son  again. (Tr. 100)  However,  his February 8, 2021 Office of 
Personnel Management (OPM) personal subject interview states that  Applicant  hit his  
son four or five times. (GE 2 at 17)  His  son ran to a neighbor ’s house  and called the 
police. (Tr. 32 , 73, 100 )  Applicant believed the assault and battery upon his son was  
separate from  and unrelated to his assault in 2011 upon his wife’s  aunt. (Tr. 58)  In April  
2021, he  completed an “Anger Management/Emotional Regulation” course.  (Tr. 100; AE 
G)  In June 2021, he completed a “Healthy Dads Program.” (AE  H)  
Applicant agreed with the content of SOR ¶ 2.a. (Tr. 33, 100) He completed the 
required classes and one year of probation without incident. (Tr. 32-33) Applicant 
received a no-contact order relating to his son, and his son was moved out of his home 
and lived with her aunt in another state. (Tr. 34) 
SOR ¶ 2.b  alleges in about April  2011,  Applicant pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor  
domestic  violence charge and w as  sentenced to six months of probation.  Applicant  
agreed with the factual  content of SOR  ¶ 2.b. (Tr.  34-37, 74)  Applicant and his wife were  
living with her  aunt in April 2011. (Tr.  35-36)  His wife’s aunt criticized Applicant for  not  
being a good provider  because he was unemployed at  that time. (Tr. 36, 97 ) Applicant  
became ups et and struck her  aunt  with his  fist. (Tr. 36-37, 98)  She fell after  he hit  her.  
(Tr. 97-98)  She did not need to go to the hospital. (Tr. 98- 99) She called the police. (Tr.  
98) He was found guilty of domestic violence, and he was sentenced to six months of  
probation and a fine. (Tr. 99)  
Personal Conduct  
SOR ¶ 3.a alleges Applicant was employed with CS from about July 2021 to about 
July 2022 as an administrator. He was terminated in about July 2022 because he failed 
to disclose that he had concurrent employment with another company in violation of CS’s 
Conflict of Interest policy and their Legal and Ethical Conduct policy. 
SOR ¶ 3.b alleges Applicant was employed with A from about January 2021 to 
about January 2022 as a Senior Systems Administrator. He did not disclose that he had 
concurrent employment by A in violation of AB’s Code of Conduct and Outside 
Employment policies. 
SOR ¶ 3.c alleges Applicant is currently employed with GD starting about January 
2022 as a Senior Systems Administrator. As of about March 5, 2024, he has not disclosed 
that he had outside employment as required by company policy. 
Applicant said he performed the same services  with a  commercial  entity when he 
worked for CS, A B, and GD. (Tr. 43)  He supported  a non -DOD  federal government  
agency when he worked for CS, and a DOD agency when he worked for AB  and GD. (Tr.  
43)  He needed to apply different skills for  each employer. (Tr. 44)  He worked for AB  from 
January 2021 to January 2022. (Tr. 81)  In January of 2022, Applicant was transitioning 
from working for AB  to GD. (Tr. 41, 81) He said AB  was a subcontractor for GD. (Tr.  40, 
81)  Applicant said  he performed the same roles in his employment for  AB  and GD, and 
they  did not  have any  objection to his transfer to GD. (Tr. 40-41, 81)   
7 
 
 
   
   
   
    
 
    
     
    
  
       
  
 
 
 
   
    
 
      
     
 
   
    
   
         
 
   
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
Applicant said AB and GD were aware of his employment arrangement with A B 
and GD. (Tr. 81) However, he does not have any documentation showing they were 
aware of this arrangement. (Tr. 82) AB and GD were not aware that he was working for 
CS. (Tr. 81-82; GE 7 at 1) AB and GD paid him with separate checks. (Tr. 82) 
AB’s code of conduct states , “If you are considering outside employment, you 
should discuss [conflict of interest ] issues with your [AB] Manager and receive written 
authorization.” (Tr. 82, GE 7 at 34) He believed his dual employment met the AB’s criteria 
for dual employment. (Tr. 90) Applicant conceded he did not receive written authorization 
for dual employment from A B. (Tr. 92) AB’s conflict of interest booklet includes the 
following provision: 
No employee shall have a financial interest  in or receive benefits  from a  
transaction between [A]  and any individual or  business firm,  as described  
below,  except with prior written approval from  the Managing Members:  
1. from which [AB]  pur
 chases supplies,  materials, or property;  
2. which renders any service to [AB];  
3. which enters into leases or assignments to or from  [A B];  
4. to which [AB]  sel ls any of its products,  materials, facilities or  properties;  
5. which has any other  cont ractual relations or business dealings with [AB].  
(GE  7)  
In Ja
nuary 2022, Applicant started working for GD, and he is not currently 
employed at GD. (Tr. 83) When he went to work for GD, he did not disclose his 
employment with CS. (Tr. 83) He reiterated that GD was already aware of his A B 
employment. (Tr. 83) He said he did not disclose his CS employment to GD because CS 
worked for a different agency, and he was employing a different skill set. (Tr. 83) 
Applicant did not list CS on his resume because he wanted to emphasize that he 
wanted to develop or advertise to prospective employers that he had a different IT skill 
set. (Tr. 84) He did not indicate it had anything to do with concealing his employment with 
multiple employers at the same time. (Tr. 84-86) 
CS gave Applicant a letter of termination for conflicts of interest and violations of 
legal policies. (Tr. 44, 77; GE 6) The letter is unclear about the specific conflict of interest, 
and Applicant said he did not understand how there was a conflict between his 
employments at CS, AB, and GD. (Tr. 45) 
CS’s conflict of interest policy states: 
A conflict  of interest can arise in dealings  with anyone with whom  [C S]  
transacts  business:  
•  Customers, clients, owners,  buyers, suppliers, banks, insurance  
companies,  and people in other organizations with whom we contact and  
make  agreements.  
8 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
  
 
     
    
   
 
      
    
  
   
    
   
    
 
  
   
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
Conflicts of interest will be avoided and include the following examples:  
•
Working for  any of the groups  mentioned above for personal gain;  
•Engaging in part-time activity for  profit  or gain in any field in which the  
Company  [is]  engaged[.]  (GE  6 at 11)  
Appli
cant signed a conflict of interest policy disclosure when he began work for CS 
in July of 2021. (Tr. 78 , 92) His CS Employment Confidential Information and Invention 
Assignment Agreement said: 
I agree that during the term of my employment with this Company, I will not 
engage in any other employment, occupation, consulting, or other business 
activity directly related to the business in which the C ompany is now 
involved or becomes involved during the term of my employment, nor will I 
engage in any other activities that conflict with my obligations to the 
company. (Tr. 78-79; GE 6 at 1) 
Applicant said that due to the nature of his work, he did not believe he had violated the 
terms of the agreement. (Tr. 79- 80, 88 -89; GE 6 at 13) Applicant’s July of 2021 
employment agreement with CS states, “If, in the future, any situation involving a possible 
conflict of interest should arise, I shall notify my immediate supervisor before taking any 
action, which, without the required approval from management, might be incompatible 
with the outlined policy in the Employee Handbook under the Section ‘Conflicts of 
lnterest.’” (GE 6 at 15) He signed for a copy of CS’s employee handbook. 
Applicant refused to acknowledge that he was aware of the requirement to report 
outside employment. (Tr. 80-81) He said he did not violate the requirement that he have 
written authorization for outside employment because the handbook states “‘You should 
discuss these issues,’ not that I must.” (Tr. 92) 
Applicant was terminated from CS but not  from AB. (Tr. 101)  When he worked for  
AB  and GD, he was primarily doing research  and testing and solving problems. (Tr. 101-
102) One of the concerns may  have been that he was receiving double pay. (Tr. 102) He  
is unaware of whether CS learned he submitted timecards to CS and AB  to be paid for  
the same time period. (Tr. 102) In IT, it is  not  uncommon for IT professionals to have two  
jobs. (Tr. 103)    
The GD ethics booklet states: 
ORGANIZATIONAL RELATIONSHIPS  
If you or an immediate family  mem
 ber serve as  a director, officer or  
consultant  for any company  that does business with us, you must disclose  
these obligations to your business unit ethics  officer even if this service is  
unpaid.  
OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT  
Before you accept outside employment,  co nsider if this second job could 
create a conﬂict   of interest with your work here or negatively  impact your  
9 
 
 
 
   
  
    
 
     
   
    
     
  
 
 
 
    
   
 
    
  
   
   
    
    
   
  
 
  
   
      
    
    
    
     
 
  
    
 
    
  
 
 
  
 
ability to do your job.  Taking a s econd job can be tricky because you may  
not  always see clearly  where your loyalties should l ie. Do not accept  outside 
employment with our  competitors, suppliers,  or customers.  (GE  8 at 17)  
Applicant’s employers did not tell Applicant that he was inadequately performing 
his duties while working for more than one employer. (Tr. 47) They did not advise him 
that he was unavailable when required to work for any employer. (Tr. 47) Applicant was 
working remote from his employment. (Tr. 47) He said he was working about 80 hours a 
week for about one year. (Tr. 47) He said he kept his duties separate. (Tr. 47) He used 
different computers for each employment. (Tr. 47- 48) He said he was unaware of any 
specific requirement to inform his employers that he had full -time employment with 
another company. (Tr. 48) He held two jobs because he wanted to provide more money 
for his family. (Tr. 49) He was not aware of the specifics of his companies ’ rules on 
conflicts of interest. (Tr. 77) 
Character Evidence  
Applicant’s DD Form 214 reflects the following awards: Purple Heart; Army Good 
Conduct Medal; National Defense Service Medal; Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary 
Medal; Global War on Terrorism Service Medal; and Army Service Ribbon. (AE J) 
Applicant’s neighbor for four years described Applicant as friendly, calm, 
personable, dependable, reliable, decent, trustworthy, and honest. (Tr. 108- 112) He 
recommended reinstatement of Applicant’s security clearance. (Tr. 112) A former 
coworker who has known Applicant for four years described him as diligent, dependable, 
honest, professional, polite, helpful, and responsible. (Tr. 116- 122) He noted that any IT 
professional who has more than one job needs to report the employment to his or her 
employer to ensure there is no conflict of interest. (Tr. 121) He recommended 
reinstatement of Applicant’s security clearance. (Tr. 121) 
A friend who volunteers with Applicant at their church said Applicant is always 
eager to give of his knowledge and time, is well qualified to do many tasks, works well 
with others, and is an excellent person, volunteer, and team member. (AE N) Applicant’s 
coworker for three years and Applicant’s colleague for three years lauded his good 
character, diligence, professionalism, dedication, reliability, ethics, and integrity. One 
colleague noted that Applicant “ is known for his great professional behavior and 
consistently demonstrates a high level of dedication to his work. [His] ability to manage 
complex tasks with precision and his commitment to excellence are truly commendable.” 
(AE P) Another colleague said, “[Applicant’s] professional demeanor is outstanding, and 
he consistently shows a profound commitment to his duties. [His] precision in handling 
complex tasks and his dedication to achieving excellence are truly noteworthy.” (AE O) 
In sum, they have full confidence in Applicant’s character, and their statements support 
his continued access to classified information. (AE O; AE P) 
Policies  
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion of the Executive 
Branch in regulating access to information pertaining to national security emphasizing, 
10 
 
 
   
   
   
    
 
 
     
     
 
 
  
  
   
    
 
   
 
  
 
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
“no one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 
518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual 
is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The President 
has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicant’s eligibility for 
access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly consistent with the 
national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation 
about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Clearance 
decisions must be “in terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a 
determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 § 7. 
Thus, nothing in this decision should be construed to suggest that it is based, in whole or 
in part, on any express or implied determination about applicant’s allegiance, loyalty, or 
patriotism. It is merely an indication the applicant has not met the strict guidelines the 
President, Secretary of Defense, and Director of National Intelligence have established 
for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 95 -0611 at 2 
(App. Bd. May 2, 1996). 
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial  
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶  E3.1.15. An applicant “has  the ultimate burden of  demonstrating that it  
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant  or continue his [or  her] security  
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01- 20700 at  3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). The burden of  
disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the Government.  See  ISCR Case No. 02-
11 
 
 
   
       
 
 
 
   
 
  
    
  
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if 
they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; see AG ¶ 2(b). 
Analysis  
Psychological Conditions  and Criminal Conduct  
AG ¶ 27 articulates the security concern for psychological conditions: 
Certain emotional, mental, and personality conditions can impair judgment, 
reliability, or trustworthiness. A formal diagnosis of a disorder is not required 
for there to be a concern under this guideline. A duly qualified mental health 
professional (e.g., clinical psychologist or psychiatrist) employed by, or 
acceptable to and approved by the U.S. Government, should be consulted 
when evaluating potentially disqualifying and mitigating information under 
this guideline and an opinion, including prognosis, should be sought. No 
negative inference concerning the standards in this guideline may be raised 
solely on the basis of mental health counseling. 
AG ¶ 30 describes the security concern about criminal conduct, “Criminal activity 
creates doubt about a person’s judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness. By its very 
nature, it calls into question a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, r ules, 
and regulations.” 
AG ¶ 28 provides psychological conditions that could raise a security concern and 
may be disqualifying in this case: 
(a) behavior that casts  doubt
  on an individual's judgment, stability, reliability,  
or trustworthiness,  not covered under any other guideline and that may  
indicate an emotional, mental,  or  personality condition, including,  but not  
limited to, irresponsible,  violent, self-harm, suicidal, paranoid,  manipulative,  
impulsive, chronic lying, deceitful, exploitative, or bizarre behaviors;   
(b)  an o pinion by   a duly qualified mental health professional that  the  
individual has a condition that may impair judgment, stability, reliability, or  
trustworthiness;   
(c) voluntary or involuntary inpatient hospitalization; and  
(d) failure to follow  a pres cribed treatment plan related to a diagnosed  
psychological/psychiatric condition that  may impair judgment,  stability,  
reliability, or trustworthiness, including, but  not limited to, failure to take  
prescribed medication or failure to attend required counseling sessions.  
AG ¶
 31 describes conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying in this case: 
12 
 
 
 
 
     
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
      
  
 
 
 
(a) a pattern of  mi
 nor offenses, any  one of which on its own would be  
unlikely to affect a  national security eligibility decision, but which in  
combination cast doubt  on the individual's judgment, reliability, or  
trustworthiness;  and  
(b) evidence (including, but not limited to, a credible allegation, an 
adm
ission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of  
whether the individual  was formally charged,  prosecuted, or convicted.  
The rec
ord establishes AG ¶¶ 28(a), 28(b), 28(d), 31(a), and 31(b). Further details 
will be discussed in the mitigation analysis, infra. 
AG ¶ 32 lists conditions that could mitigate criminal conduct security concerns: 
(a) so much time has  elaps ed since the criminal behavior happened, or it  
happened under such unusual circumstances, that it is unlikely to recur and  
does not cast doubt on the individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, or good  
judgment;  
(b) the individual was pressured or coerced into committing the act and  
thos
e pressures are no longer present in the person’s life;  
(c) no reliable evidence to support that the individual committed the offense;  
and  
(d) there is evidence of successful rehabilitation; including, but not limited  
to,
 the passage of time without recurrence of criminal activity, restitution,  
compliance with the terms of parole or  probation, job training or higher  
education, good employment  record,  or constructive community  
involvement.  
AG ¶
 29 lists psychological conditions mitigating conditions which are potentially 
applicable: 
(a) the identified condition is readily controllable with treatment, and the  
indi
vidual has demonstrated ongoing and consistent compliance with the  
treatment plan;  
(b) the individual has voluntarily entered a counseling or treatment program  
for
 a condition that is amenable to treatment, and the individual is currently  
receiving counseling or treatment with a favorable prognosis by  a duly  
qualified mental health professional;  
(c) recent opinion by  a dul y qualified mental  health professional  employed  
by,  or acceptable to  and approved by,  the U.S. Government  that an  
individual’s previous condition is under control or in remission, and has a  
low probability of recurrence or  exacerbation;  
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
   
   
 
 
    
 
      
 
    
   
  
      
   
  
   
  
   
 
     
   
    
 
 
 
    
  
     
   
   
(d) the past psychological/psychiatric condition was temporary,  the
  situation  
has been resolved, and the individual no longer shows indications of  
emotional instability; and  
(e) there is  no in dication of  a current problem.  
In ISCR Case No. 10- 04641 at 4 (App. Bd.  Sept. 24, 2013), the DOHA Appeal  
Board concisely explained Applicant’s responsibility for proving the applicability of  
mitigating conditions as follows:   
Onc
e a concern arises regarding an Applicant’s security clearance 
eligibility, there is a strong presumption against the grant or maintenance of 
a security clearance. See Dorfmont v. Brown, 913 F. 2d 1399, 1401 (9th 
Cir. 1990), cert. denied, 499 U.S. 905 (1991). After the Government 
presents evidence raising security concerns, the burden shifts to the 
applicant to rebut or mitigate those concerns. See Directive ¶ E3.1.15. The 
standard applicable in security clearance decisions is that articulated in 
Egan, supra. “Any doubt concerning personnel being considered for access 
to classified information will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Directive, Enclosure 2, [App. A] ¶ 2(b). 
On October 30, 2023, Dr. S evaluated Applicant’s mental health and concluded: 
Applicant carries a diagnosis of PTSD, which is a condition that inherently 
presents a threat to his judgment and reliability. His history is marked by 
several adverse situations where negative behaviors were triggered by 
symptoms inherent within his diagnosis. . . . His engagement in mental 
health treatment has produced some positive results with the most benefit 
coming from his compliance with psychiatric medications. However, 
[Applicant] has not been using medications since 2022 despite his own 
admission that he receives significant relief of his symptoms and that his 
most recent arrest likely would not have occurred if he had been using his 
psychiatric medications. Based upon the available evidence and 
[Applicant’s] own reporting, it is apparent that [Applicant] meets criteria for 
the diagnosis listed above and that his judgement and reliability are 
vulnerable when he experiences the inherent symptoms. (GE 3 at 5) 
In ISCR Case No.  19-00151 at  8 (App. Bd. Dec. 10, 2019)  the Appeal Board denied  
a government appeal  and addressed the administrative judge’s weighing of conflicting  
expert  psychological opinions  as follows:     
A Judge is required to weigh conflicting evidence and to resolve such 
conflicts based upon a careful evaluation of factors such as the comparative 
reliability, plausibility, and ultimate truthfulness of conflicting pieces of 
evidence. See, e.g., ISCR Case No.05-06723 at 4 (App. Bd. Nov. 4, 2007). 
A Judge is neither compelled to accept a DoD -required psychologist’s 
diagnosis of an applicant nor bound by any expert’s testimony or report. 
Rather, the Judge has to consider the record evidence as a whole in 
14 
 
 
 
    
   
   
      
   
     
 
  
   
   
 
    
  
  
 
 
      
       
        
 
  
  
    
   
    
     
      
   
    
  
    
 
 
   
 
 
  
    
   
 
 
 
deciding what weight to give conflicting expert opinions.  See, e.g. , ISCR 
Case No. 98- 0265 at  4 (App. Bd. Mar. 17,  1999)  and ISCR Case  No. 99-
0288 at 3 (App.  Bd.  Sep. 18, 2000).  
Dr. S’s opinion is supported by multiple incidents. Applicant admitted he was 
discharged from the Army for misconduct. He became angry at her aunt and son, and he 
assaulted them. The assaults resulted in misdemeanor-level convictions. Various mental-
health professionals diagnosed him with PTSD, and the VA has given him a 70 percent 
disability rating for PTSD. For several years, he stopped receiving therapy, did not attend 
appointment to renew his prescriptions, and did not take his mental health medications. 
AG ¶¶ 32(a) and 32(d) are established. Applicant completed 75 percent of his 
courses for his master’s degree. Several employers have hired him for sensitive IT duties. 
Applicant has not committed any crimes since the assault upon his son in October 2020., 
He completed an Anger Management/Emotional Regulation course and a parenting 
program. He has gone to numerous therapy sessions in the past two or three years. He 
successfully completed probation. Several character witnesses praised his good 
behavior. 
The evidence against mitigation of psychological condition security concerns is 
more persuasive. AG ¶ 29 (a) is not established because Applicant did not provide a 
statement that his rather severe level of PTSD “is readily controllable with treatment.” He 
is credited with being compliant with current treatment plans. However, it is unclear 
whether the current treatment plans will be successful in controlling his PTSD. I f he is in 
stressful situations, he may become angry and frustrated and make poor decisions. AG 
¶ 29(b) is not established because he did not provide “ a favorable prognosis by a duly 
qualified mental health professional .” AG ¶ 29(c) is not established because he did not 
provide a “recent opinion by a duly quali fied mental health professional employed by, or 
acceptable to and approved by, the U.S. Government that [his PTSD] is under control or 
in remission, and has a low probability of recurrence or exacerbation.” AG ¶ 29(d) does 
not apply because his PTSD is not temporary. He has suffered from PTSD since at least 
2006. Dr. S’s opinion is credible, supported by the facts, and there is no contrary opinion 
discussing the relationship of Applicant’s PTSD with his ability to protect classified 
information. Criminal conduct security concerns stemming from the assaults upon his son 
in 2020, and his wife’s aunt in 2011 are mitigated. Psychological conditions security 
concerns are not mitigated. 
Personal Conduct  
AG ¶ 15 explains why personal conduct is a security concern stating: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect 
classified information. Of special interest is any failure to provide truthful 
and candid answers during the security clearance process or any other 
failure to cooperate with the security clearance process. . . . 
15 
 
 
  
 
 
 
AG ¶ 16 l
ists personal conduct disqualifying conditions that are potentially relevant 
in this case as follows: 
(d) credible adverse information that is not explicitly covered under any  
other  guid
eline and may not be sufficient by itself for an adverse  
determination,  but which, when combined with all  available information,  
supports a whole- person assessment  of questionable judgment,  
untrustworthiness,  unreliability, lack of candor, unwillingness to comply with 
rules and regulations,  or other characteristics indicating that the individual  
may not  properly safeguard classified or sensitive information. This  
includes, but is not limited to, consideration of:  
     (1)  untrustworthy  or unr eliable behavior to include breach of client  
confidentiality, release of proprietary information,  unauthorized release of  
sensitive corporate or  government protected information;  
 
     
(2) any disruptive, violent,  or other inappropriate behavior;  
 
   
  (3) a pattern of  dishonesty or rule violations; and  
 
     (
4) evidence of significant misuse of Government or other  employer's  
time or resources; and  
 
 
   
   
 
  
 
 
 
(e) personal conduct,  or co ncealment  of information about one's conduct,  
that creates  a vulnerability to exploitation,  manipulation,  or duress by a  
foreign intelligence entity  or other individual  or group. Such  conduct  
includes: (1) engaging in activities  which, if known, could affect  the person's  
personal, professional, or community standing.   
The recor
d evidence establishes AG ¶ ¶ 16(d)(3) and 16(e) . Discussion is in the 
mitigation section, infra. 
AG ¶ 17 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns in this case: 
(a) the individual  made pr ompt,  good-faith efforts to correct the omission,  
concealment,  or falsification before being confronted with the facts;  
(b) the refusal or failure to cooperate, omission, or concealment was caused  
or si
gnificantly contributed to by  advice of legal counsel  or of  a person with  
professional responsibilities for advising or instructing the individual  
specifically concerning security processes. Upon being made aware of the  
requirement to cooperate or  provide the information, the individual  
cooperated fully  and truthfully;  
(c) the offense is so minor, or so much time has passed, or the behavior is  
so inf
requent, or it happened under such unique circumstances that it is  
unlikely to recur  and  does not cast doubt  on the individual's reliability,  
trustworthiness, or  good judgment;  
16 
 
 
 
 
 
     
      
  
  
 
    
      
     
       
 
   
         
     
     
        
    
 
  
    
     
 
  
  
  
 
     
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
(d) the individual has acknowledged the behavior and obtained counseling  
to c
hange the behavior or taken other positive steps to alleviate the  
stressors, circumstances, or factors that  contributed to untrustworthy,  
unreliable, or  other inappropriate behavior, and such behavior is  unlikely to  
recur;  
(e) the individual has  ta ken positive steps to reduce or eliminate vulnerability  
to exploitation,  manipulation, or duress; and  
(f) the information was unsubstantiated or from a source of questionable  
re
liability.  
Appli
cant was employed with CS from about July 2021 to about July 2022. CS said 
he was terminated in about July 2022 because he failed to disclose that he had concurrent 
employment with another company in violation of CS’s Conflict of Interest policy and their 
Legal and Ethical Conduct policy. 
Applicant was employed with AB from about January 2021 to about January 2022. 
He did not disclose that he had concurrent employment with both CS and AB in violation 
of AB’s Code of Conduct and Outside Employment policies. He did not provide a 
statement from AB that he was in compliance with their employment and ethics policies. 
Applicant is currently employed with GD starting about January 2022. As of about 
March 5, 2024, he had not disclosed that he had outside employment as required by 
company policy. At his hearing, he said GD was aware of his outside employment and 
did not object to it. At the time of his hearing, he had left employment with GD. There is 
no evidence that GD terminated him from working for GD for violating GD’s conflicts of 
interest or ethics policies. SOR ¶ 3.c is refuted. 
Applicant contended that the wording of the ethics policies used “should” disclose 
outside employment, as opposed to “must” disclose outside employment. Thus, reporting 
was optional. His decision not to disclose his outside employment showed poor judgment. 
He did not establish that CS incorrectly fired him for conflict of interest. Applicant was 
working from home in IT full time for two companies. He did not credibly explain how he 
was able to manage these two employments. If he was working diligently to fix a problem 
for AB, he was unavailable to fix a problem for CS. The allegations in SOR ¶¶ 3.a and 3.b 
are substantiated, and Applicant’s failure to accept full responsibility for these poor 
decisions continues to cast doubt on his reliability, trustworthiness, and good judgment. 
Personal conduct security concerns are not mitigated. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
Applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the Applicant’s 
conduct and all the circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
17 
 
 
 
       
 
  
  
    
 
   
  
    
   
      
     
 
  
  
   
   
  
  
      
   
 
    
    
    
 
  
  
  
   
    
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
   
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.   
Under AG ¶ 2(c), “[t]he ultimate determination” of whether to grant a security 
clearance “must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines” and the whole- person concept. My comments under Guidelines I, J, 
and E are incorporated in my whole- person analysis. Some of the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) 
were addressed under those guidelines but some warrant additional comment. 
Applicant is 40 years old. In 2011, he received an associate degree in computer 
information systems-network administration. In 2015, he received a bachelor’s degree in 
computer networking, and in May of 2024, he has completed 75 percent of the credits on 
a master’s degree in information technology management. He has a 3.945 grade point 
average in his master’s degree program. He has multiple IT certifications. He has never 
had a work-related security infraction or incident. 
Applicant served in the Army from 2002 to 2006. In April 2024, a Soldier was killed 
in a vehicle accident; in June 2004, Applicant was injured by incoming mortar fire; and he 
received a Purple Heart medal. A piece of shrapnel was embedded in his forehead and 
his eardrum was perforated. Applicant was traumatized from his tour in Iraq . He also 
received an end of tour award of an ARCOM. Applicant’s DD Form 214 reflects the 
following awards: Purple Heart; Army Good Conduct Medal; National Defense Service 
Medal; Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal; Global War on Terrorism Service 
Medal; and Army Service Ribbon. 
Applicant received a general discharge under honorable conditions for a pattern of 
misconduct. He has a 100 percent disability rating from the VA. Seventy percent of his 
disability rating is for PTSD. 
Applicant’s neighbor and several colleagues made statements, which provide 
support for reinstatement of his security clearance. The general sense of their statements 
is that Applicant is friendly, personable, dependable, reliable, decent, trustworthy, honest, 
diligent, professional, polite, helpful, and responsible. Criminal conduct security concerns 
are mitigated for the reasons stated in the criminal conduct analysis section, supra. 
The reasons for revocation of his security clearance are more persuasive at this 
time. The psychological conditions and personal conduct sections explain why the 
security concerns are not mitigated. 
This decision should not be construed as a determination that Applicant cannot or 
will not attain the state of reform necessary for award of a security clearance in the future. 
With continued treatment for his PTSD, a favorable prognosis, better decisions , and 
18 
 
 
   
   
 
  
 
 
      
 
 
   
   
  
      
  
 
      
    
 
     
   
    
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
_________________________ 
taking full responsibility for making errors in judgment, he may well be able to demonstrate 
persuasive evidence of his security clearance worthiness. 
It is well settled that once a concern arises regarding an applicant’s security 
clearance eligibility, there is a strong presumption against granting a security clearance. 
See Dorfmont, 913 F. 2d at 1401. I have carefully applied the law, as set forth in Egan , 
Exec. Or. 10865, the Directive, the AGs, and the Appeal Board’s jurisprudence to the 
facts and circumstances in the context of the whole person. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  Guideline I: AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a  through 1.d:  Against Applicant 
Paragraph 2, Gui
 deline J:  FOR APPLIC
ANT 
Subparagraph 2.a  and 2.b:  For Applicant 
Paragraph 3, Gui deline E:  AGAINST
 APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  3.a  and 3.b:   Against Applicant 
Subparagraph 3.c:  For Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances in this case, it is not clearly consistent with the 
interests of national security to grant Applicant eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility 
for access to classified information is denied. 
Mark Harvey 
Administrative Judge 
19 