 
  
                                                             
                             
          
           
             
 
 
    
  
       
  
  
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
      
  
 
 
        
        
      
    
     
      
    
 
           
       
          
            
    
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00615 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Tara Karoian, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
04/16/2025 
Decision 
COACHER, Robert E., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to mitigate t he security concerns under Guideline E, personal 
conduct. Applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance is denied. 
History  of the  Case  
On April 26, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) 
issued Applicant a Statement of Reasons (SOR) detailing security concerns under 
Guideline E. The DCSA acted under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 196 0), as amended; Department of 
Defense ( DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance 
Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative 
guidelines (AG) implemented by the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR and requested a hearing. The case was assigned to 
me on December 6, 2024. The Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued 
a notice of hearing on January 10 , 20 25, and the hearing was held as scheduled on 
February 19, 2025. The Government offered exhibits (GE) 1 through 5 and 7, which were 
admitted into evidence without objection. Applicant objected to GE 6, but I overruled that 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          
      
     
 
           
        
       
      
     
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
objection, and  it was admitted  into  the  record. The  Government’s  exhibit list and  pre-
hearing  discovery letter were  marked  as hearing  exhibits  (HE) I  and II. Applicant testified,  
but  he  did  not offer  any  exhibits.  DOHA  received the  hearing  transcript (Tr.) on  February  
28, 2025.  
Findings of Fact  
Applicant admitted SOR allegations ¶¶ 1.a-1.i, and he denied ¶¶ 1. j-1.m. His 
admissions are adopted as findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of t he 
pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact. 
Applicant is 31 years old. In December 2022, he graduated from college with a 
bachelor’s degree. He is single, has never married, and has one child, age five. He has 
worked as an engineer for his current employer, a defense contractor, since January 
2023. He first completed a security clearance application (SCA) in May 202 3, several 
months after he began his employment. (Tr. 6, 26-27, 35 GE 1) 
Under Guideline E, the SOR alleged: 
1. Applicant was  charged  with  retail  theft in  October 2011, which  charge  was  nolle  
prossed  (SOR  ¶  1.a);  
2. Applicant was charged  with  a  minor in possession  of alcohol  in February 2012, which  
charge was nolle prossed  (SOR  ¶  1.b);  
3. Applicant  was charged with  disorderly conduct in July 2014  (SOR  ¶  1.c);  
4. Applicant used  marijuana  between  2008  and  2009, and  again in  July 2020  (SOR  ¶  1.d);   
5. Applicant used  Adderall, without a  lawful prescription, at various times, between  
February and May 2021  (SOR  ¶  1.e);  
6. Applicant was charged  in November 2021,  and convicted  of driving with  a  suspended, 
denied, canceled, or revoked  driver’s license  (SOR  ¶  1.f);  
7. Applicant  was charged  in  June  2022, with  driving  with  a  suspended, denied,  canceled,  
or revoked driver’s license  (SOR  ¶  1.g);   
8. Applicant was  charged  in September  2022, with  assault causing  bodily  injury,  which  
was pleaded down to disorderly conduct—fighting/violent behavior  (SOR  ¶  1.h);   
9. Applicant was  charged  in September  2022, with  driving  with  a  suspended,  denied,  
canceled, or revoked driver’s license  (SOR  ¶  1.i);   
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
        
        
           
 
 
 
    
           
              
       
  
 
      
            
         
        
     
       
    
 
       
        
        
             
        
             
           
           
  
10. Applicant falsified his May  2023  SCA  when  he  failed  to  disclose  his arrests, as listed  
in SOR ¶¶  1.f-1.i, and  when  he  failed  to  disclose  his marijuana  and  Adderall  use, as  
described  in SOR ¶¶  1.d-1.e  above  (SOR  ¶¶ 1.j-1.k);   
11. Applicant gave  false answers to  an  investigator  in  July  2023  during  his  background  
interview  (BI),  when  he  failed  to  disclose  his criminal record,  as stated  above  in  SOR  ¶¶  
1.f-1.i  (SOR  ¶ 1.l);  and  
12.  Applicant  gave  a  false answer  in April 2024,  in  response  to  Government  
interrogatories when  he  denied  using  marijuana, a  drug  illegal under  federal law. (SOR  ¶ 
1.m).   
During Applicant’s hearing testimony, he admitted all the allegations stemming 
from his criminal charges and marijuana and Adderall use, as he had in his SOR answer. 
The factual information concerning these arrests, and his drug use is summarized below: 
Retail  theft-2011:  Applicant admitted, during  his July 2023  BI, that in October 
2011, when  he  was 17  years old,  he  shoplifted  a  pack  of gum  from  a  gas station. The  
police were notified,  and he was arrested shortly after leaving the store. He was formally  
charged  with  misdemeanor theft,  but the  case  was ultimately nolle  prossed.  (GE 2  (pp. 5-
6), GE  3)  
Possession of liquor by a minor-2012: Applicant admitted, during his BI, that in 
February 2012, when he was 18 years old, he was partying with some friends at an 
apartment. He drank so much vodka that he passed out. When he woke up , he found 
himself handcuffed by the police. He was formally charged with a misdemeanor , but the 
case was ultimately nolle prossed. (GE 2 (p. 5), GE 3) 
Disorderly conduct-2014: Applicant admitted, during his BI, that in July 2014, he 
and some friends were hanging around outside a baseball stadium trying to flirt with girls. 
They talked with some girls they knew and as the girls were leaving, he hit a girl that he 
knew on her buttocks. He intended the contact as a joke. A police officer witness ed the 
contact and arrested Applicant for disorderly contact. He was formally charged with a 
misdemeanor, but according to him, the officers failed to show up at cou rt hearings on 
two occasions and the charges were dismissed. (Tr. 31-32; GE 2 (p. 6), GE 3) 
Marijuana use -2008-2009, 2020: Applicant admitted using marijuana in high 
school (2008-2009) and later in 2020. He claimed that his use in high school was smoking 
a marijuana cigar three different times with friends. He did not like it and felt no effects 
from smoking it. His 2020 use occurred w hen he came home from college, visited some 
friends, and was offered a marijuana cigar, from which he took several puffs. He 
discovered that he still did not like it. He stated he had no intent to use marijuana in the 
future. He failed to disclose his 2020 marijuana use on his May 2023 SCA, in Section 23. 
During his hearing testimony, he claimed he did not know marijuana was illegal under 
federal law until Department Counsel stated such in her opening statement. He admitted 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
        
       
    
        
         
        
          
        
   
 
 
 
    
            
        
     
            
       
               
           
         
 
 
        
        
using  marijuana  in  2008-2009  and  2020,  during  his  BI.  He told the  investigator that he  did  
not list  his 2020  marijuana  use  on  his SCA because  he  forgot  about it.  In  his answers to  
Government interrogatories in April 2024, he  denied  ever using  marijuana, which  the  
question  described  as  a  “Federally illegal   drug.” The   explanation  he  gave, during   his  
testimony,  for that answer was that he  hurried  through  the  question, not  really paying  
attention to what it was asking  him.  (Tr. 33-34, 57; GE  2 (pp. 7-8, 19)  
Adderall use-2021: In his testimony, Applicant admitted using Adderall from about 
February to May 2021, without a legal prescription. He explained that he was taking a 
very difficult course in college and needed to focus more. This was during COVID-19, so 
he was unable to get additional assistance from professors because of the limited contact 
during this time. He admitted not having a prescription for it. He sought it out from a friend, 
but he did not know whether the friend had a prescription for it. He did not disclose this 
use on his SCA, or during his BI. He testified that the reason he did not was because, “I 
didn’t think it was a big deal.” He finally disclosed his Adderall use when he answered the 
Government’s interrogatories in April 2024. (Tr. 34, 46-47; GE 2 (pp. 7-8, 19) 
Three driving with a revoked/suspended driver’s license  charges-November  
2021, June  2022,  September 2022:  Applicant  testified  that  his driver’s license   was  
suspended  because of  an  unpaid speeding  ticket.  He claimed  he  could not afford to  pay  
the  ticket because  he  was in college,  and  he  did not  have  the  money. Despite  this, he  
continued  to  drive  on  a  suspended  license  repeatedly, which  resulted  in the  three  arrests. 
He stated  he  drove  because, “I still   had  to  get around.” Applicant claims once  he  
graduated  and  gained  employment,  he  was able to  pay the  costs of the  ticket and  he  
acquired  a  new driver’s license  in  the  state  of  his current residence.  He admitted  that  only 
a  month  before his hearing, he  was stopped  for having  expired  license  tags. This was not  
alleged  in the  SOR, and  will  only be  used,  if at  all, for assessing  mitigation  and  the  whole-
person  factors. He failed  to  list these  three  arrests on  his SCA,  or disclose  them  during  
his BI.  When  an  interrogatory question  specifically asked  him  about the  three  suspended  
license  charges, he  provided  an  answer consistent with  the  above  information.  (Tr. 32-
33, 43, 52; GE  2-3 (p. 25)  
Assault charge, pleaded down to disorderly conduct-September 2022: During 
his testimony, Applicant admitted that he got into a fight outside a bar and he punch ed 
the other person. He claimed that he was provoked when the other person used a racial 
epithet directed at him. He denied any other assaultive behavior other than punching him. 
The charge was negotiated down to disorderly conduct to which he pleaded guilty. His 
sentence required him to attend anger management classes, which he completed. He 
failed to list this charge on his SCA. He claimed he failed to report it because he did not 
think to do so because the charge was dismissed. He also sta ted an unrecalled fellow 
employee told him he could verbally report the information during his BI, which is what he 
did. (Tr. 37-42; GE 3 (pp. 4-5)) 
In addition to what was already stated about why Applicant failed to either list 
required information on his SCA, or disclose it during his BI, he provided this additional 
4 
 
 
 
 
           
   
         
            
       
            
            
        
       
           
          
         
         
        
           
        
 
 
  
        
        
          
        
     
  
 
      
        
      
          
   
 
 
      
    
          
information. He had only been at his job for a few months when he was directed to 
complete his SCA. He did not seek out assistance from his facility security officer before 
completing it. He was very busy learning his job and he felt he could not take the 
appropriate time to complete his SCA. He also admitted that he did not take the clearance 
process seriously and he just skimmed through it. He claimed he did not list certain 
information on his SCA because he thought he could address any questions during h is 
BI. He also claimed he was not trying to hide anything because he knew the Government 
would find out everything anyway. He admitted during cross examination that he knew 
his answers on his SCA to the drug questions and criminal history question should h ave 
been “yes.” He explained that he would answer “no” on his SCA, then explain if asked 
about the subject during his BI. During his BI, he was asked about his criminal record and 
only disclosed the 2011 and 2012 charges. Only after he was c onfronted did he discuss 
the 2021 and 2022 criminal charges. Applicant also stated that he was hesitant to be 
honest with the investigator conducting his BI because he was afraid the information 
would be used against him and he could lose his job. Specifically, he refe renced the 
September 2022 disorderly conduct charge that he initially failed to disclose during his BI. 
(Tr. 35, 49-50, 52-54, 59, 64; GE 2 (p. 4)) 
Whole-Person Information  
Four personal friends and one work colleague provided character letters in support 
of Applicant. Two authors stated they were aware of his legal issues. The general tone of 
all the letters was that Applicant is a dedicated worker and a valued, trusted, and reliable 
employee. He is a good friend who is loyal, compassionate, and trustworthy . He came 
from a difficult background and has risen above his past. (SOR answer, attached letters) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider t he adjudicative guidelines . In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, t he adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are use d in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These  guidelines  are  not  inflexible  rules  of  law. Instead,  recognizing  the  
complexities of human  behavior, t hese  guidelines are applied  in conjunction  with  the  
factors  listed  in  the  adjudicative  process. The  administrative  judge’s  overarching  
adjudicative  goal is a  fair, impartial,  and  commonsense  decision. According  to  AG ¶  2(a),  
the  entire process  is a  careful weighing  of a  number  of  variables known  as  the  “whole-
person  concept.” The  administrative  judge  must consider all  available, reliable  information  
about the  person, past and  present, favorable and  unfavorable, in making a  decision.  
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
5 
 
 
 
 
       
  
 
        
       
       
     
     
 
          
       
    
              
      
      
          
  
 
       
            
      
 
 
 
   
      
 
 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical , and based on t he evidence 
contained in the record. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in t he SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel , and has t he 
ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of t he possible risk 
that an applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation about potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that decisions shall be “in terms of t he national 
interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to t he loyalty of t he applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline E, Personal Conduct  
AG ¶ 15 expresses the personal conduct security concern: 
Conduct involving  questionable judgment, lack of candor,  dishonesty,  or  
unwillingness to  comply with  rules and  regulations can  raise  questions  
about an  individual’s reliability, trustworthiness and   ability to   protect  
classified  or sensitive  information.  Of  special interest is any  failure to  
cooperate  or provide  truthful and  candid answers during  national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes.  
16. Conditions that could raise a security concern and may be disqualifying 
include: 
(a) deliberate  omission, concealment,  or falsification  of relevant facts from  
any personnel  security questionnaire, personal history statement,  or similar  
form  used  to  conduct investigations,  determine  employment qualifications,  
award  benefits or status, determine  national security eligibility or 
trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities;  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
      
         
     
         
 
     
           
        
         
         
          
         
           
  
 
          
             
    
         
      
   
    
(b) deliberately providing  false or misleading  information; or concealing  or  
omitting  information, concerning  relevant facts to  an  employer, investigator,  
security official, competent medical or mental  health  professional involved  
in making  a  recommendation  relevant to  a  national security eligibility 
determination, or other official government representative; and    
(c)  credible  adverse information  in several adjudicative issue  areas  that is  
not sufficient for an  adverse determination  under any other single guideline,  
but which, when  considered  as a  whole, supports a  whole-person  
assessment  of  questionable  judgment, untrustworthiness,  unreliability, lack  
of candor, unwillingness to  comply  with  rules and  regulations,  or other 
characteristics indicating  that  the  individual  may  not properly safeguard  
classified or sensitive information.  
All the admitted SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a-1.i have elements of drug misuse or 
criminal activity to them. However, what is at the heart of all thes e adverse actions that 
began in 2011 and continued intermittently through 2022 , is Applicant’s repeated bad 
judgment, untrustworthiness, unreliability and unwillingness to comply with rules. AG ¶ 
16(c) applies to SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.i. The general concern expressed in AG ¶ 15 also applies. 
Applicant’s disingenuous, contradicting, and self-serving reasons for why he failed 
to disclose his criminal offenses and his use of marijuana and Adderall on his May 2023 
SCA are unconvincing. For example, he stated he did not list his 2021 and 2022 criminal 
charges on his SCA because he would discuss them with an investigator during his BI. 
Yet, he failed to disclose those charges when specifically asked about criminal charges 
during his BI . He did not list his misuse of Adderall because he thought it wa s “no big 
deal.” I conclude that he deliberately falsified or withheld information on both his SCA and 
during his BI as alleged. AG ¶ 16(a) applies to SOR ¶¶ 1.j-1.k, and AG ¶ 16(b) applies to 
SOR ¶ 1.l. 
Applicant’s explanation for answering “no” to the interrogatory question of whether 
he had ever used marijuana , which was that he did not read the question correctly, is 
plausible. I conclude this because he had already disclosed his marijuana use during his 
BI, so it makes little sense for him to deliberately provide false information to this question 
at this time. The Government failed to establish SOR ¶ 1.m under AG ¶ 16(b). 
I have also considered all of the mitigating conditions for personal conduct under 
AG ¶ 17 and considered the following relevant: 
(a) the  individual made  prompt,  good-faith  efforts to  correct the  omission,  
concealment,  or falsification  before being confronted with the facts;  
(c)  the  offense  is so  minor, or so  much  time  has passed, or the  behavior is 
so  infrequent, or it happened  under such  unique  circumstances that it is 
7 
 
 
 
 
      
        
      
        
    
          
      
         
          
   
 
         
      
       
   
 
 
       
       
           
 
        
      
      
unlikely to  recur and  does  not  cast  doubt on  the  individual's reliability,  
trustworthiness, or good judgment; and    
(d) the  individual has acknowledged  the  behavior and  obtained  counseling  
to  change  the  behavior or taken  other positive steps to  alleviate  the  
stressors, circumstances, or  factors that  contributed  to  untrustworthy, 
unreliable, or other inappropriate behavior, and such  behavior is unlikely to  
recur.  
Applicant’s criminal offenses individually could be characterized as minor, 
however, the repeated nature of his aberrant behavior and rules violations transforms his 
actions into serious security concerns . His recent traffic offense for driving with expired 
tags is evidence that his behavior has not conformed to societal norms, thus indicating 
that his bad behavior is likely to recur. AG ¶¶ 17(c) and 17(d) do not apply. 
Applicant failed to apprise the BI investigator about his 2021 and 2022 criminal 
offenses before he was confronted with that information. AG ¶ 17(a) does not apply . 
Additionally, providing false information on a n SCA or during a BI is not a minor offense 
because it strikes at the heart of the clearance process, which relies on open and honest 
reporting. AG ¶ 17(c) does not apply to SOR ¶¶ 1.j-1.l. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under t he whole-person concept, t he administrative j udge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all t he circumstances. The administrative judge should consider t he nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) t he  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) t he  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of t he  conduct; (4) t he  
individual’s age  and  maturity at t he  time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  
and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct;  
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), t he ultimate determination of w hether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I considered Applicant’s age, and the 
supportive statements of his coworker and friends. However, I also considered Applicant’s 
8 
 
 
 
 
          
   
 
       
     
        
  
 
        
     
  
    
 
     
  
     
 
 
             
        
    
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
multiple falsifications and his continued pattern of rules violations that began in 2011 and 
continued through 2025 with his ticket for having expired license tags. 
Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts about 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance . For all t hese reasons, I 
conclude App licant failed to mitigate the personal conduct security concerns under 
Guideline E. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  E:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a-1.l:   Against Applicant 
Subparagraph  1.m:   For Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of t he circumstances presented by t he record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Robert E. Coacher 
Administrative Judge 
9 