 
 
  
 
  
        
         
           
             
 
 
  
  
                  
   
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
 
    
  
 
___________ 
___________ 
DEPA
RTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance  
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 24-01566 
Appearances  
For Government: Mark Lawton, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
11/17/2025 
Decision 
PRICE, Eric C., Administrative Judge: 
This case involves security concerns raised under Guideline F (Financial 
Considerations). Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on December 16, 2023. 
On October 17,  202 4, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) 
issued to Applicant a Statement of Reasons (SOR) detailing security concerns under 
Guideline F. The action was taken under Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, 
Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as 
amended (Directive), and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) promulgated in Security 
Executive Agent Directive 4 (SEAD 4), National Security Adjudicative Guidelines 
(December 10, 2016), for all adjudicative decisions on or after June 8, 2017. 
Applicant responded to the SOR (Answer) on November 15, 2024, and requested 
a hearing before an administrative judge. The case was assigned to me on July 2, 2025. 
On July 31, 2025, the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a notice 
scheduling the hearing via video teleconference. 
 
 
 
  
    
    
    
 
 
   
   
 
       
 
     
    
      
  
 
   
  
 
        
        
  
   
    
    
     
   
 
   
   
   
        
    
     
       
    
       
 
      
 
I convened the hearing as scheduled on September 24, 202 5. Department 
Counsel offered Government Exhibit (GE) 1 through GE 5, which were admitted without 
objection. Applicant testified and submitted Applicant Exhibit (AE) A, which was admitted 
without objection. DOHA received the hearing transcript (Tr.) on October 10, 2025. (Tr. 
11-20, Hearing Exhibit (HE) I) 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted all the allegations. His admissions 
are incorporated in my findings of fact. (Answer) 
Applicant is 51 year s old. He owns a private company and has worked under 
contract as a software architect for a federal contractor since March 2023. He has served 
as chief technology officer for a different company since 2021 and has worked in various 
information technology (IT) positions for more than 25 years. He recently started a small 
online business to earn extra income. He has never held a security clearance. (GE 1, GE 
4; Tr. 10, 24-28, 54-58) 
Applicant earned a bachelor’s degree in 1999. He married in 2000 and divorced in 
January 2023. He has one adult age child. (GE 1; Tr. 21-24, 57-58) 
The SOR alleges 12 delinquent debts totaling about $95,877 reflected in credit 
reports from January 2024, August 2024, and September 2025. (GE 2, GE 3, GE 5) 
Applicant disclosed most of the delinquent debts alleged in the SOR in his December 
2023 SCA and discussed the debts with a government investigator in April 2024. (GE 1 
at 32-39, GE 4 at 2-4) Applicant testified that except for the $5,097 debt alleged in SOR 
¶ 1.h that I will discuss in further detail below, he had not contacted the creditors, made 
any payments on, or otherwise attempted to resolve the delinquent debts alleged in the 
SOR. (Tr. 21-41, 60-63) 
Applicant attributes his financial problems to his divorce, moving expenses 
associated with marital separation and an attempted reconciliation, increased expenses 
when he transitioned from an employee to an independent contractor , and financial 
support to his daughter, her boyfriend and their child. He is working multiple jobs to 
generate sufficient income to pay his debts. His top priority is making required payments 
on a debt not alleged in the SOR, a $28,000 federal income tax debt for tax year (TY) 
2018 through TY 2022. After resolving the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.h, he intends to 
address each delinquent debt one at a time from the smallest to the largest until all debts 
are resolved. (GE 1 at 32-41, GE 4 at 2-4; Tr. 21-60) 
Evidence concerning the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.h is summarized below. 
SOR ¶  1.h: credit  card charged off for $5,097.  This  individual credit  card account  
was opened or assigned in April 2022, charged off for $5,097 on or before January 23,  
2024, and had a past  due balance of $2,822 as of September 16,  2025. Applicant testified  
that after receiving several offers  from the creditor  to  settle  the debt  he  entered a payment  
arrangement in about  February  2025 to settle it  for $2,100. He submitted evidence  of 
2 
 
 
    
     
        
      
 
     
  
        
     
       
    
 
  
   
    
 
 
      
  
  
    
    
 
      
 
 
   
   
  
  
   
    
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
  
monthly payments from February to August 2025 totaling $1,500 that reduced the past 
due balance to $2,822, and evidence that monthly payments were scheduled from 
September through November 2025. (GE 1 at 33-34, GE 2 at 4, GE 3 at 3, GE 4 at 2, GE 
5 at 2; AE A; Tr. 39-44, 60-63) This debt is being resolved. 
Applicant currently earns about $168,000 per year from his various jobs and 
business pursuits. After paying his monthly expenses including his delinquent tax debt, 
he essentially has no net remainder to apply to his other delinquent debts. He has about 
$2,100 in savings and crypto currency and no retirement savings account. He also has 
about $73,000 in student loan debt that is several months delinquent but that was not 
alleged in the SOR. (Tr. 50-52, 63-68) 
Applicant was informed of the importance of providing documentary evidence 
regarding matters alleged in the SOR but declined the opportunity for additional time to 
submit documentary evidence. (Tr. 7-8, 23-24, 61-63, 74-75) 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it i s clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
decision. An administrative judge must consider all available and reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865 
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant 
has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have 
established for issuing a clearance. 
3 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
     
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
  
  
   
  
   
 
   
    
   
 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 15- 01253 at 3 
(App. Bd. Apr. 20, 2016). 
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of  proving a mitigating condition,  
and the burden of disproving it  never shifts to the Government.  See  ISCR Case No.  02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep.  22,  2005).   
 
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent  
with the national interest to grant or continue  his security clearance.” ISCR Case No.  01-
20700 at  3 (App. Bd.  Dec. 19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  Egan, 484 U.S. at 531.   
A
nalysis  
Guideline F: Financial Considerations  
The security concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's  means, satisfy debts, and meet financial  
obligations may  indicate poor  self-control, lack of judgment, or  
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise  
questions about  an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to  
protect classified or sensitive information. . . .  An individual who is financially  
overextended is at  greater risk of having to engage in illegal  or otherwise 
questionable acts to generate funds. . . .  
This concern is broader than the possibility that a person might knowingly 
compromise classified or sensitive information to raise money. It encompasses concerns 
about a person’s self -control, judgment, and other qualities essential to protecting 
classified or sensitive information. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be 
irresponsible, unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding classified or 
sensitive information. See ISCR Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012). 
Applicant’s admissions and record evidence, including credit bureau reports, 
establish two disqualifying conditions under this guideline: AG ¶ 19(a) (inability to satisfy 
debts) and AG ¶ 19(c) (a history of not meeting financial obligations). The following 
mitigating conditions are potentially applicable: 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
     
 
    
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good judgment;   
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial  problem were largely beyond  
the person’s control  (e.g., loss of employment, a business  downturn,  
unexpected medical  emergency, a death, divorce or separation, clear  
victimization by  predatory  lending practi ces, or identity theft),  and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;   
(c) the individual  has received or is receiving financial counseling for the
problem from  a legitimate and credible source, such as a non- profit credit
counseling service,  and there are clear indications that the problem is being  
resolved or is under control;  and  
 
 
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- faith effort to repay 
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts. 
AG ¶ 20(d) is established for the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.h. Applicant is credited 
with mitigating the debt because he has adhered to a good-faith effort to resolve the debt 
by making monthly payments in accordance with a payment plan since February 2025. 
None of the above mitigating conditions are established for the debts alleged in 
SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.g and I.i-1.l. Applicant’s delinquent debts are numerous , ongoing and he 
did not submit sufficient evidence to establish that they were incurred under 
circumstances unlikely to recur. Although his divorce and associated costs were 
conditions largely beyond his control ; he has not produced sufficient evidence that he 
acted responsibly under the circumstances. There is no evidence he has sought financial 
counseling, and he has not attempted to contact or repay overdue creditors or otherwise 
resolve those debts. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all the circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
5 
 
 
 
   
  
     
   
      
     
  
  
 
    
  
   
 
  
  
 
  
   
   
  
 
      
    
 
   
 
     
 
       
 
    
 
 
      
  
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
I have incorporated my comments under Guideline F in my whole-person analysis 
and applied the adjudicative factors in AG ¶ 2(d). I found Applicant’s testimony to be 
sincere and credible. I considered his age, work history, limited financial resources to pay 
his delinquent debts and that his financial problems were caused in part by conditions 
beyond his control. I also considered that he is resolving the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.h 
($5,097) and delinquent federal tax debt (about $28,000) not alleged in the SOR . 
However, there is insufficient evidence to conclude that Applicant has acted responsibly 
given his circumstances. 
After weighing the disqualifying and mitigating conditions under Guideline F and 
evaluating all the evidence in the context of the whole person, I conclude Applicant has 
not mitigated the security concerns raised by his delinquent debts. 
This decision should not be construed as a determination that Applicant cannot or 
will not attain the state of reform necessary for award of a security clearance in the future. 
With a longer track record of financial responsibility, he may be able to demonstrate 
persuasive evidence of his security clearance worthiness. Overall, the record evidence 
leaves me with questions and doubts as to his eligibility and suitability for a security 
clearance at this time. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.g: Against Applicant 
Subparagraph 1.h: For Applicant 
Subparagraphs 1.i-1.l:  Against Applicant 
Conclusion  
I conclude that it is not clearly consistent with the interests of national security to 
grant Applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified 
information is denied. 
Eric C. Price 
Administrative Judge 
6 