 
 
 
                                                              
                         
          
           
             
 
 
    
  
       
   
  
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
     
        
  
 
 
    
    
 
       
    
    
    
    
    
        
   
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00468 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: William Miller, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
02/25/2025 
Decision 
Goldstein, Jennifer, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not mitigate the security concerns under Guideline s H (Drug 
Involvement and Substance Misuse) , J (Criminal Conduct) , and E (Personal Conduct) . 
Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
On May 30, 2019 , Applicant completed an Electronic Questionnaires for 
Investigations Processing or security clearance application (SCA). (Government Exhibit 
(GE) 1) On October 13, 2022, Applicant completed a second SCA (GE 2). On March 19, 
2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) issued a statement 
of reasons (SOR) to Applicant under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960); Department of Defense 
(DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
Program (Directive) (January 2, 1992), as amended; and Security Executive Agent 
Directive 4, establishing in Appendix A, the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for 
Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a 
Sensitive Position (AGs), effective June 8, 2017. 
1 
 
 
 
        
      
        
        
    
           
          
       
         
        
        
     
 
      
         
        
             
   
 
 
 
          
            
           
          
          
       
       
         
         
     
 
           
        
         
        
         
    
 
      
         
          
        
      
The SOR detailed reasons why the DCSA did not find under the Directive that it 
is clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant or continue a security 
clearance for Applicant and recommended referral to an administrative judge to 
determine whether a clearance should be granted, continued, denied, or revoked. 
Specifically, the SOR set forth security concerns arising under Guideline s H, J, and E . 
Applicant provided a response to the SOR dated March 21, 2024 (Answer-1). On April 
9, 2024, Department Counsel filed an amended SOR, to make the allegations conform 
with Applicant’s Answer 1. Applicant answered the amended SOR on April 11, 2024 
(Answer 2) . On December 11 , 2024, the case was assigned to me. On January 21 , 
2025, the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a notice scheduling 
the hearing on February 5, 2025 . The hearing was held as scheduled, using the 
Microsoft Teams video teleconference system. 
During the hearing, Department Counsel offered eight exhibits into evidence, 
marked GE 1-8, and two hearing exhibits (HE) marked I and II. Applicant offered twelve 
exhibits, marked Applicant exhibits (AE) A-L, and called three witnesses. There were no 
objections to any of the proffered exhibits, and GE 1 -8 and AE A -L were admitted into 
evidence. On February 19, 2025, DOHA received a copy of the transcript (Tr.). 
Some  details were   excluded  to  protect Applicant’s right to  privacy. Specific   
information is available in the cited exhibits and transcript.  
Findings of Fact  
Under the Guideline for Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse , the amended 
SOR alleges that Applicant used marijuana from 1991 to at least April 2022 (amended 
SOR ¶ 1.a); and that his marijuana use from about December 2021 to April 2022 was 
while holding a sensitive position ( amended SOR ¶ 1.b) . Under the Guideline for 
Criminal Conduct, he was alleged to have been arrested in January 2013 for Disorderly 
Conduct and Battery ( amended SOR ¶ 2.a) and was arrested in July 2022 for Assault 
on a Female (amended SOR ¶ 2.b). Under the Guideline for Personal Conduct, the 
amended SOR alleged that Applicant falsified his response to Section 23 on his SCA 
with respect to his marijuana use (amended SOR ¶ 3.a). Applicant admitted the 
allegations in amended SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, 2.b, and 3.a. He denied amended SOR ¶ 2.a. 
Applicant is 52 years old. He earned a doctora l degree in 2019. He works as an 
adjunct professor and as a research scientist for a government contractor. He has been 
working as an employee of the government contractor since 2019. He was granted a 
security clearance in 2019. He testified that he has worked on one classified program. 
He has been married since 2006 and has four minor children. His wife (W) and two 
oldest children testified on his behalf. (GE 1; Tr. 96-99) 
Applicant has used marijuana at varying frequencies since 1991. His estimates 
about the frequency of use were inconsistent between his testimony and his statements 
made during his subject interview. While he has had extended periods of abstinence 
from marijuana use, he has a history of “relapse.” Applicant first used marijuana in 1991 
while in college. He used it at a varying frequency up to three or four times per week. In 
2 
 
 
 
        
       
    
       
           
        
          
         
          
 
           
             
   
 
         
      
            
          
            
  
 
        
           
          
       
        
 
 
       
               
          
     
        
             
              
          
         
          
        
       
         
       
  
 
         
          
          
1994, he left college without a degree. H e did not use marijuana again for ten years. 
(Answer 2). In the mid -2000s until approximately 2011, he occasionally used marijuana 
approximately twice per year while visiting his brother. He did not use marijuana in 2012 
because he was completing an undergraduate degree in mathematics. After graduation 
in 2013, he recalls using marijuana about three times between 2013 and 2017. He 
abstained from marijuana use for approximately two years while in the doctoral 
program. He chose to use marijuana in approximately 2017 through January 2019 
about once per month . (GE 7) He did not use it again until winter break 2021 . In his 
January 2023 subject interview he estimated he smoked marijuana three to four times 
per year since December 2021. In his Answer-1, he claimed “in 2022, [he] rarely used it” 
until Christmas break, when he “again fell and used a little in a social setting.” In early 
2023, he claimed he “rarely used it” and claimed to have fully stopped using marijuana 
in September 2023. (GE 1, GE 2, GE 7 at 1, 4; Answer 2; Tr. 93-111) 
Applicant stated his intention to abstain from marijuana use during his January 4, 
2023 subject interview. However, he continued to use marijuana until September 2023 . 
He claimed he has not used marijuana in the past year and a half. He stated h e threw 
out the last of the marijuana he possessed in fall 2023 . Since then, he has associated 
with marijuana-using friends that encouraged him to use it, but he has declined. (GE 2 , 
GE 7 at 1, 4; Answer 2; Tr. 93-116) 
Applicant was issued a security clearance effective November 1, 2019. He 
signed a non -disclosure agreement on that day. (GE 5) He acknowledged that he had 
access to classified information when he used the marijuana on six to twelve occasions. 
He asserts his marijuana use was “extremely infrequent” and that he “now realize[s] that 
this is strictly forbidden.” He expressed his intent in writing to abstain from marijuana 
use. (Answer 2; Tr. 116-122) 
Applicant was arrested in January 2013 and charged with Disorderly Conduct 
and Battery. On this occasion, he was playing a song he created for his children on his 
laptop. W shut his laptop because she did not want their children exposed to rock 
music. Applicant indicated rock music is “like satanic to her.” He claims that W 
screamed at him for half an hour, and he decided to take the kids to their grandmother’s 
house to get away from the yelling . W threatened to call the police if he took the 
children. She started to dial 911. He grabbed the phone and “stiff-armed her” to stop her 
from calling 911. W testified, “[H]e threw me to the floor because of that.” She hit her 
head when she was thrown . She testified that she sought medical treatment and w as 
diagnosed with a mild concussion. He claimed that W was mistaken and that “the tests 
came back negative” for a concussion. The hospital notified the police of the domestic 
violence, and Applicant was arrested and charged with Disorderly Conduct and Battery. 
According to the FBI rap sheet in evidence, the Battery charge was dismissed , but he 
was convicted of Disorderly Conduct and placed on probation. Applicant claims he was 
not convicted of this charge. (GE 4 at 8, GE 8; Tr. 55-61, 68-70, 81-87, 123-130) 
Applicant was arrested in July 2022 for Assault on a Female. On this occasion, 
W was cooking a late lunch for their family. Applicant insulted her cooking. A verbal 
dispute ensued. W said the argument became physical when Applicant pushed W “hard 
3 
 
 
 
 
          
           
       
       
     
            
         
         
   
 
         
        
           
       
         
      
     
        
        
       
            
           
        
   
 
        
         
         
          
   
 
     
       
   
 
 
 
to  the  wall.”  Applicant  said he  grabbed  her  shoulders, she  pushed  him, and  then  he 
pushed  her back. She  hit her head  on  the  wall as she  fell. She  indicated  that she  
wanted  to  call  for help, but Applicant took the  phone  away.  He  denied  that he  took  her  
phone. She  went to  her neighbor’s and  then  to  the  hospital. She  stated  she  was  
diagnosed  with  a  concussion.  As a  result of  this altercation,  Applicant was  arrested  and  
charged  with  Assault. He entered  into  a  deferred  prosecution  agreement where he  was  
placed  on  probation  for one  year and  he  was  required  to  participate  in 26  weeks of 90-
minute  counseling  sessions.  He  successfully completed  his  period  of probation,  and  the  
charges were dismissed. (GE  3, GE 6;  Tr. 70-78, 87-92, 130-138)  
During the hearing, W testified that their relationship “is really struggling.” 
Applicant asked his wife if he was a truthful person and if he had said something that 
was untrue. She responded that his “setting up dates with other women” was untruthful 
and mentioned that he was not honest about money. (Tr. 65) She testified that they 
argue daily and that he has spat on her, but never hit her. (Tr. 72) Applicant entered 
videos of W into evidence. They depict W yelling and in one video she throws food at 
him. He claimed they show he has been an unretaliating victim of his wife’s abusive 
behavior. (AE B, AE H, AE J -L; Tr. 31, 54 , 80-92) W indicated that she angers easily 
and has provoked him. (Tr. 79) 
When Applicant completed his SCA in May 2019, he did not disclose his 
marijuana use in the seven years preceding his application. He answered Section 23 
“No,” despite knowing he had used marijuana during that timeframe, as alleged on the 
SOR. (GE 2.) Unalleged, but relevant to mitigation, h e did disclose some marijuana use 
on his October 13, 2022 SCA , but he reported, “Only one use on a holiday during the 
past four years.” This was an intentional under -reporting of his marijuana use. During 
his subject interview on January 4, 2023, he was asked about the frequency of his use . 
He reported that since December 2021, he smoked marijuana three to four times per 
year. During the subject interview, he was also asked about his omission of marijuana 
use on his 2019 SCA. The investigator’s report reflected that he said he did not list his 
marijuana use because the frequency and amount used was minimal . He claimed at 
hearing that despite inhaling marijuana smoke o n several occasions, he did not 
consider himself to be a “user” of marijuana. He also justified his falsification by noting 
that everyone lies. (Answer-1; GE 1, GE 2, GE 5, GE 7; Tr. 140-142) 
Applicant taught his daughter math and his son piano. His son is an award -
winning pianist , and several of the videos entered in evidence were of his piano 
performances. The children testified that , outside of the two alleged criminal incidents, 
they have not witnessed him being violent. H e has never used violence against them. 
(AE A, AE E-G, AE I; Tr. 9-28) 
Applicant’s 2022 annual performance review reflects that he is “bright and 
capable.” His ratings were outstanding and exceeds expectations. In 2023, he received 
a promotion. In his new role, he met or exceeded all expectations. (AE C, AE D) 
4 
 
 
 
 
        
          
           
       
       
      
       
 
       
        
 
         
      
       
  
 
           
   
         
      
         
    
 
 
        
           
          
     
   
 
     
         
           
        
            
          
         
       
      
     
       
         
        
       
 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s over arching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and 
commonsense decision. An administrative judge must consider all available and reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 
10865 § 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the 
applicant has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense 
have established for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in 
the personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant 
from being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden 
of establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan at 531. Substantial 
evidence is “such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to 
support a conclusion in light of all the contrary evidence in the same record.” See ISCR 
Case No. 17 -04166 at 3 (App. Bd. Mar. 21, 2019) It is “less than the weight of the 
evidence, and the possibility of drawing two inconsistent conclusions from the evidence 
does not prevent [a Judge’s] finding from being supported by substantial evidence.” 
Consolo v. Federal Maritime Comm’n, 383 U.S. 607, 620 (1966). “Substantial evidence” 
is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. Washington Metro. Area 
Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines presume a nexus or 
rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria listed therein and 
an applicant’s security suitability. ISCR Case No. 15-01253 at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 20, 
2016). 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
   
         
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
    
 
      
   
 
        
             
        
           
 
 
  
 
Once  the  Government establishes a  disqualifying  condition  by substantial 
evidence, the  burden  shifts to  the  applicant  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or mitigate  the  
facts.  Directive ¶  E3.1.15. An  applicant has  the  burden  of proving  a  mitigating  condition,  
and  the  burden  of  disproving  it never shifts  to  the  Government. See  ISCR  Case  No. 02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005).  
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent 
with the national interest to grant or continue his security clearance.” ISCR Case No. 
01-20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, 
if they must, on the side of denials.” Egan at 531. 
Analysis  
Guideline H, Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse   
The concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 24: 
The  illegal use  of controlled  substances,  to  include  the  misuse  of  
prescription  and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances 
that  cause  physical or mental impairment  or are  used  in a  manner  
inconsistent with  their  intended  purpose  can  raise  questions about an  
individual’s reliability and   trustworthiness, both   because  such  behavior  
may lead  to  physical or psychological impairment and  because  it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules,  
and  regulations.  Controlled  substance  means any “controlled  substance”  
as defined  in  21  U.S.C. 802.  Substance  misuse  is the  generic term  
adopted in this guideline to  describe any of the behaviors listed above.  
The following disqualifying conditions are relevant: 
AG ¶  25(a) any substance misuse (see above definition); and 
AG ¶  25(f) any illegal drug use while granted access to classified 
information or holding a sensitive position. 
AG ¶ 25(a) is established by Applicant’s admissions regarding his long history of 
drug use. He used marijuana at varying frequencies from about 1991 to April 2022. AG 
¶ 25(f) is established by his acknowledgement that he was granted a security clearance 
in 2019, had access to classified materials, and continued to use marijuana despite his 
access to classified information. 
The following mitigating conditions are potentially applicable: 
AG ¶  26(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent, or  
happened  under such  circumstances that it is  unlikely to  recur or does not  
cast doubt on  the  individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or   good  
judgment;  
6 
 
 
 
   
      
        
 
 
 
 
        
    
   
 
 
          
      
        
  
 
          
         
      
          
       
        
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
AG ¶  26(b) the individual acknowledges his or her drug involvement and 
substance misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this 
problem, and has established a pattern of abstinence, including, but not 
limited to: 
(1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts;  
(2) changing  or avo iding  the  environment  where drugs  were  used; 
and  
(3) providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug 
involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future 
involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation of national security 
eligibility. 
AG ¶ 26(a) is not fully established. He failed to establish that recurrence is 
unlikely, given his long history with marijuana. He has had long periods of abstaining 
from marijuana use, but has , as he put it, “relapsed.” Applicant has not shown that his 
drug use is unlikely to recur. 
As discussed above, he claims to be abstaining from marijuana use currently. 
However, given his history of lying about his marijuana use (addressed below) and lying 
to W about dating other women and about finances, I question his credibility . 
Additionally, AG ¶ 26(b)(1) and (2) do not apply because he continues to associate with 
marijuana users in environments where he is offered marijuana. Although he provided a 
signed statement of intent as described in AG ¶ 26(b) (3), AG ¶ 26(b) is not fully 
established. 
Guideline J, Criminal Conduct  
The  concern  under this guideline  is set  out in  AG ¶  30:  “Criminal activity creates  
doubt about a  person's judgment,  reliability,  and  trustworthiness. By its very nature, it  
calls into  question  a  person's ability or willingness  to  comply with  laws, rules, and  
regulations.”  
The following disqualifying condition is relevant: 
AG ¶  31(b) evidence  (including, but not limited  to, a  credible  allegation, an  
admission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of  
whether the individual was formally charged,  prosecuted, or convicted.  
AG ¶  31(b) is  established.  Applicant’s actions in 2013  and  2022  caused  injury to  
W.  In  2013,  he  was  charged  with  Disorderly  Conduct  and  Battery.  The  Battery charge  
was dismissed,  but he was sentenced  to  probation  on  the  Disorderly Conduct  charge.  In  
2022,  he  was charged  with  Assault  on  a  Female.  The  charge  was  dismissed  after  he  
completed  probation  and  an  intervention  program.  These  allegations are substantiated  
by  the attachments to  Applicant’s answers to  interrogatories and  W’s testimony.  
7 
 
 
 
   
 
       
  
        
  
 
        
         
      
    
 
 
    
          
           
       
           
      
  
 
 
       
  
 
 
    
   
 
 
           
    
 
   
 
The following mitigating conditions are potentially relevant: 
AG ¶  32(a) so much time has elapsed since the criminal behavior 
happened, or it happened under such unusual circumstances, that it is 
unlikely to recur and does not cast doubt on the individual's reliability, 
trustworthiness, or good judgment; and 
AG ¶  32(d) there is evidence of successful rehabilitation; including, but not 
limited to, the passage of time without recurrence of criminal activity, 
restitution, compliance with the terms of parole or probation, job training or 
higher education, good employment record, or constructive community 
involvement. 
AG ¶¶ 32(a) and 32(d) are not established. Applicant ’s videos of his wife, along 
with his wife’s testimony , depict a struggling marriage . The volatility that led to the 
domestic incidents is not unusual in their home. While there has not been an arrest 
since 2022, Applicant has good performance appraisals from work, and Applicant 
completed the intervention program as ordered by the court, I cannot hold that Applicant 
is rehabilitated given the current volatile domestic situation and his wife’s reports that he 
has spat on her. 
Guideline E  - Personal Conduct  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Personal Conduct is set out in 
AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving  questionable judgment, lack of candor,  dishonesty,  or  
unwillingness to  comply with  rules and  regulations can  raise  questions  
about an  individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and  ability to  protect  
classified  or sensitive  information.  Of  special interest is any  failure to  
cooperate  or provide  truthful and  candid answers during  national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes.   
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 16. One is potentially applicable in this case: 
AG ¶  16(a) deliberate  omission, concealment,  or falsification  of relevant  
facts from  any personnel security questionnaire, personal  history 
statement,  or similar  form  used  to  conduct investigations, determine  
employment  qualifications, award  benefits or status,  determine  national  
security eligibility or trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities.  
Applicant falsified answers on his 2019 SCA regarding his marijuana use . The 
cited disqualifying condition applies. 
I have considered the following potentially mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 17: 
8 
 
 
 
      
       
 
 
        
     
    
   
 
     
      
    
      
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
       
          
        
       
      
 
 
 
AG ¶  17(a) the individual made prompt, good -faith efforts to correct the 
omission, concealment, or falsification before being confronted with the 
facts; 
AG ¶  17(c) the offense is so minor, or so much time has passed, or the 
behavior is so infrequent, or it happened under such unique 
circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does not cast doubt on the 
individual's reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment; and 
AG ¶  17(d) the individual has acknowledged the behavior and obtained 
counseling to change the behavior or taken other positive steps to 
alleviate the stressors, circumstances, or factors that contributed to 
untrustworthy, unreliable, or other inappropriate behavior, and such 
behavior is unlikely to recur. 
None  of the  mitigating  conditions apply in  this case. Applicant ’s conduct in   
falsifying  his 2019  SCA demonstrated  poor judgment.  He  claimed  that he  did  not
understand  the  definition  of use  and  that  he  believed  he  was  not a  “user”  of  marijuana.
However, he  is highly educated  and  should  have  known  he  needed  to  answer  fully and
truthfully. Further, in his 2022  SCA,  although he  disclosed  some marijuana  use  between
1991  and  2022, that disclosure was neither  prompt nor complete.  While  he  disclosed
some  marijuana  use,  he  did not  disclose  the  full  extent of his use. He  indicated  that he
did not intend  to  use  marijuana  again because  he  wanted  to  set a  good  example for his
children. Despite  that  disclosure, he  continued  to  use  marijuana  after stating  he  would
not.  He  also justified  his falsification  by noting  that everyone  lies. His judgment remains
questionable. He  failed to establish mitigation.  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole -person concept. In applying the whole -
person concept, an administrative j udge must evaluate an applicant’s eligibility for a 
security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct and all relevant 
circumstances. An a dministrative judge should consider the nine adjudicative pr ocess 
factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of  
rehabilitation  and  other permanent  behavioral changes;  (7) the  motivation  
for the  conduct;  (8) the  potential  for pressure, coercion,  exploitation, or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood  of continuation  or recurrence.   
9 
 
 
 
 
 
     
    
       
       
         
         
         
  
 
 
      
   
 
   
 
      
 
   
 
     
 
 
 
     
 
  
 
 
       
       
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
I have  incorporated  my comments under Guidelines  H, J, and  E  in my whole-
person  analysis and  applied  the  adjudicative  factors in  AG  ¶  2(d). Once  a  concern  
arises regarding  an  applicant’s security   clearance  eligibility,  there is a  strong  
presumption  against  the  grant or maintenance  of a  security clearance.”  ISCR  Case  No.  
09-01652  at  3  (App. Bd. Aug.  8,  2011),  citing  Dorfmont v.  Brown,  913  F.2d  1399, 1401  
(9th  Cir. 1990), cert. denied, 4999 U.S. 905 (1991).  
Applicant has not overcome this presumption. He has demonstrated recent 
questionable judgment. While he had favorable appraisals at work, his history of drug 
involvement, criminal conduct, and falsification creates questions about his 
trustworthiness. He did not meet his burden to mitigate these concerns. After weighing 
the disqualifying and mitigating conditions under Guideline s H, J, and E and evaluating 
all the evidence in the context of the whole person, I conclude Applicant has not 
mitigated the security concerns raised by his drug involvement and substance misuse , 
criminal conduct, and personal conduct. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline H (Drugs/Misuse):  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a-1.b:  Against Applicant 
Paragraph  2,  Guideline J (Criminal Conduct): AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  2.a-2.b:  Against Applicant 
Paragraph  3, Guideline E (Personal Conduct):  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  2.a:   Against Applicant 
Conclusion 
I conclude that it is not clearly consistent with the national security interests of the 
United States to grant Applicant eligibility for access to classified information. Clearance 
is denied. 
Jennifer Goldstein 
Administrative Judge 
10 