 
  
                                                             
                             
          
           
             
 
 
    
  
       
  
  
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
      
   
 
 
 
      
        
         
    
     
      
   
 
          
             
              
          
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00337 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Tara Karoian, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Jeffrey S. Gard, Esq. 
04/10/2025 
Decision 
COACHER, Robert E., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to mitigate t he security concerns under Guideline E, personal 
conduct. Security concerns under Guideline H, drug involvement and substance misuse, 
were mitigated. Applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance is denied. 
History  of the  Case  
On April 5, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) 
issued Applicant a Statement of Reasons (SOR) detailing security concerns under 
Guidelines H and E. The DCSA acted under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 196 0), as amended; Department of 
Defense ( DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance 
Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative 
guidelines (AG) implemented by the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR on April 23, 2024. He requested a hearing. The case 
was assigned to me on October 3, 2024. The Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals 
(DOHA) issued a notice of hearing on December 16, 2024, and the hearing was held as 
scheduled on February 13, 2025. The Government offered exhibits (GE) 1 through 4, 
 
 
 
 
        
          
             
      
 
 
        
             
   
 
           
        
        
           
          
      
        
        
           
 
 
       
         
     
  
        
             
           
           
  
 
 
 
which were admitted into evidence without objection. The Government’s exhibit list and 
pre-hearing discovery letter were marked as hearing exhibit s (HE) I and II. Applicant 
testified, and offered exhibits (AE) A through F, which were admitted into evidence without 
objection. DOHA received the hearing transcript (Tr.) on February 24, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant admitted all the SOR allegations. His admissions are adopted as findings 
of fact. After a thorough and careful review of t he pleadings and exhibits submitted, I 
make the following additional findings of fact. 
Applicant is 24 years old. In May 2023, he graduated from college with a bachelor’s 
degree. He is single, has never married, and has no children. He has worked as an 
engineer for his current employer, a defense contractor, since July 2023. Previously, from 
July 2022 to mid-August 2022, he worked for the same employer as an intern when he 
was still in school . He then received a fulltime job offer from the company in December 
2022. He first completed a security clearance application (SCA) in May 2022 , in 
conjunction with his summer internship. He was granted an interim secret clearance. In 
December 2022, he completed his second SCA, in conjunction with his acceptance of a 
fulltime position. He was granted an interim top secret clearance. (Tr. 23-24, 29, 31, 34, 
38; GE 1-2) 
Under Guideline H, the SOR alleged Applicant used marijuana, with varying 
frequency, from about August 2019 to about April 202 2 (SOR ¶ 1.a); and that he 
purchased marijuana from about October 2021 to about April 2022. (SOR ¶ 1.b) 
Under Guideline E, the SOR alleged Applicant falsified his December 2022 SCA 
when he failed to disclose his marijuana use and purchases as described above. (SOR 
¶¶ 2.a and 2.b) It also alleged that Applicant gave false answers to an investigator when 
he denied any past drug use during his background interview (BI) in October 2023. (SOR 
¶ 2.c) 
During  Applicant’s testimony, he  admitted  all  the  allegations,  as he  had  in  his SOR  
answer. He  first u sed marijuana  in  the  2019  timeframe  when he  was in  college.  He  used  
marijuana  recreationally  about once  a  week  by smoking  it  or taking  edible  gummies.  He  
did not use  any other  drugs. He resides in a  state  where recreational marijuana  use, 
possession, and  purchases  are  legal under state  law.  He purchased  marijuana  at state-
regulated  marijuana  dispensaries, or obtained  it from  friends,  at  various times between  
October 2021  and  April 2022,  for personal use.  He stopped  using  and  purchasing  
marijuana  in April 2022, when  he  was  21.  He passed  a  preemployment drug  test  for his  
internship.  He  did not  use  marijuana  during  his internship  or since  he began  his fulltime  
employment.  He does  not intend  to  use  it in  the  future.  He continues to  associate  with  
friends who  use  marijuana  but they respect his decision  to  abstain. (Tr. 26-27, 29-30, 34-
37; GE  1; SOR answer)  
2 
 
 
 
 
           
            
         
       
           
       
   
 
    
                 
       
            
           
 
 
        
         
            
           
     
 
           
    
        
            
       
 
 
       
        
        
      
        
         
 
 
      
           
          
     
   
 
 
 
 
In May 2022, Applicant filled out an SCA for his internship position. In section 23 
of the SCA, he was asked if in the last seven years, he had ever used or purchased illegal 
drugs. He answered “no,” which was false based upon his later admissions that he used 
and purchased marijuana within the past seven years. Based upon this falsified SCA, he 
was granted an interim secret clearance. This falsification was not alleged in the SOR. I 
will not use this evidence for disqualification purposes , but I may use it to assess 
credibility, mitigation and the whole-person factors. (Tr. 24-27; GE 2; SOR answer) 
In December 2022, Applicant filled out an SCA upon accepting a fulltime position. 
In section 23 of the SCA , he was asked if in the last seven years, he had ever used or 
purchased illegal drugs. He answered “no,” which was false based upon his later 
admissions that he used and purchased marijuana within the past seven years. Based 
upon this falsified SCA, he was granted an interim top secret clearance. (Tr. 24-27; GE 
1; SOR answer) 
Applicant testified that his failure to list his prior drug use and purchases was not 
because he was confused by the status of marijuana under state law. He knew his 
marijuana use and purchases were illegal under federal law at the time he completed his 
SCAs. The reason he failed to list his drug history was beca use he was afraid of losing 
his job opportunity if he admitted his marijuana use and purchases. (Tr. 24-25) 
In September 2023, Applicant was interviewed by a Government investigator . He 
was specifically asked by the investigator whether his previous answers on his SCA about 
his past drug history were correct . He falsely stated that they were correct . This 
falsification was not alleged in the SOR. I will not use this evidence for disqualification 
purposes, but I may use it to assess credibility, mitigation and the whole -person factors. 
(Tr. 40-41; GE 3 (September 11, 2023, BI)) 
In October 2023, Applicant was reinterviewed by a Government investigator . He 
was again specifically asked by the investigator whether his previous answers on his SCA 
about his past drug history were correct. He , once again, falsely stated that they were 
correct. The investigator then confronted Applicant with other information about his past 
drug use and purchases developed during the investigation. At that point, Applicant 
admitted his drug use and purchases , as described above. (Tr. 40 -41, 43 -44; GE 3 
(October 10, 2023, BI)) 
Applicant blames his falsification actions on being immature at the time and being 
scared for his future. He claims to have learned much from that experience and 
understands that telling the truth is the best policy, even if it means he may suffer adverse 
personal consequences. He informed his work supervisor about his drug history and his 
falsifications. (Tr. 45, 50) 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
           
        
 
 
        
    
          
           
          
            
    
  
 
      
        
      
          
   
 
          
      
         
         
          
       
     
 
      
    
          
       
  
 
        
       
       
     
     
 
          
       
    
Whole-Person Information 
An exce rpt from Applicant’s 2023 performance form indicates that he is a fast 
learner and valuable contributor. He was noted as a team player and a great partner. (AE 
F) 
Three personal friends and eight work colleagues, including his direct supervisor, 
provided character letters in support of Applicant. Other than Applicant’s claim that he 
informed his supervisor of his drug history and falsification s, there is no indication in the 
submitted letters that the a uthors were aware of those facts. The general tone of all the 
letters was that Applicant is a dedicated worker and a valued, trusted, and reliable 
employee. He is a trusted and reliable employee . He is a good friend who is loyal, 
compassionate, and trustworthy (AE A-E) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider t he adjudicative guidelines . In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, t he adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are use d in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing t he 
complexities of human behavior, t hese guidelines are applied in conjunction with t he 
factors listed in t he adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a), 
the entire process is a careful weighing of a number of variables known as t he “whole-
person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical , and based on t he evidence 
contained in the record. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in t he SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and ot her evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel , and has t he 
ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
4 
 
 
 
 
              
      
      
          
  
 
       
            
      
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
           
   
 
  
 
      
   
 
 
             
     
    
 
      
 
 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of t he possible risk 
that an applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation about potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that decisions shall be “in terms of t he national 
interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to t he loyalty of t he applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline H, Drug Involvement  and Substance Abuse  
AG ¶ 24 expresses the security concern pertaining to drug involvement: 
The  illegal use  of controlled  substances,  to  include  the  misuse  of  
prescription  and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances 
that  cause  physical or mental impairment  or are  used  in a  manner  
inconsistent with  their  intended  purpose  can  raise  questions about an  
individual's reliability and  trustworthiness, both  because  such  behavior may  
lead  to  physical or psychological  impairment and  because  it raises  
questions about  a  person's ability or  willingness to  comply  with  laws,  rules,  
and  regulations. Controlled  substance  means  any "controlled  substance"  as  
defined  in 21  U.S.C. 802. Substance  misuse  is the  generic term  adopted  in  
this guideline  to  describe any of the behaviors listed above.  
AG ¶ 25 describes conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying. Two are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) any substance  misuse, and   
(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation, 
processing, manufacture, purchase, sale, or distribution; or possession of 
drug paraphernalia. 
Applicant used marijuana, from 2019 to April 2022, and purchased it, from 2021 to 
April 2022 on various occasions. His admissions support these allegations. I find AG ¶¶ 
25(a) and 25(c) apply. 
AG ¶ 26 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. Two potentially 
apply in this case: 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
     
    
   
 
        
          
              
          
           
       
           
              
     
      
 
 
   
      
 
 
    
   
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or happened  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur or does  not cast  doubt  
on  the  individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  judgment;  and  
(b) the  individual acknowledges his or her drug  involvement and  substance  
misuse,  provides evidence  of actions taken  to  overcome  this problem, and  
has established  a pattern of abstinence, including, but not limited  to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts;  
(2) changing  or avoiding  the  environment  where drugs  were  used; 
and  
(3) providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug 
involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future 
involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation of national security 
eligibility. 
From 2019 to April 2022, Applicant used and purchased marijuana occasionally. 
He credibly stated that he stopped using it in April 2022 because he would soon graduate 
from college and he no longer desired to purchase or use it. He stated he has not used it 
since that time, and there is no evidence to the contrary. All his marijuana use was in a 
state which legalized marijuana use and his use was before he worked for a federal 
contractor. He passed a preemployment drug test before he was hired for his current 
position. While he still associates with some friends who use marijuana, he has no desire 
or intent to use any illegal drugs in the future. AG ¶ 26(a) applies. His two-plus years of 
abstinence, under these circumstances, are sufficient to demonstrate a pattern of 
abstinence to make AG ¶ 26(b) also applicable. 
Guideline E, Personal Conduct 
AG ¶ 15 expresses the personal conduct security concern: 
Conduct involving  questionable judgment, lack of candor,  dishonesty,  or  
unwillingness to  comply with  rules and  regulations can  raise  questions  
about an  individual’s reliability, trustworthiness and   ability to   protect  
classified  or sensitive  information.  Of  special interest is any  failure to  
cooperate  or provide  truthful and  candid answers during  national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes.  
16. Conditions that could raise a security concern and may be disqualifying 
include: 
(a) deliberate omission, concealment, or falsification of relevant facts from 
any personnel security questionnaire, personal history statement, or similar 
6 
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
      
          
     
   
    
   
       
       
           
            
      
          
     
  
 
         
      
       
   
 
         
      
      
        
      
     
   
  
form used to conduct investigations, determine employment qualifications, 
award benefits or status, determine national; and 
(b) refusal  to  provide  full, frank, and  truthful  answers to  lawful questions of  
investigators,  security officials, or other  official representatives in  
connection with a  personnel security or trustworthiness determination.  
Applicant admitted that he deliberately provided false information about his drug 
history on his December 2022 SCA and during his October 2023 BI to an investigator . 
Both AG ¶¶ 16(a) and 16(b) apply. 
I have also considered all of the mitigating conditions for personal conduct under 
AG ¶ 17 and considered the following relevant: 
(c)  the  offense  is so  minor, or so  much  time  has passed, or the  behavior is 
so  infrequent, or it happened  under such  unique  circumstances that it is 
unlikely to  recur and  does  not  cast  doubt on  the  individual's reliability,  
trustworthiness, or good judgment.  
Applicant’s falsifications are not minor offenses. He, in essence, gave false 
information about his drug history four different times, e.g., on his May 2022 SCA, on this 
December 2022 SCA, during his September 2023 BI, and during his October 2023 BI, 
before he was confronted, and finally admitted his drug history. I recognize that he was 
young and wanted to secure a particular job, but that is no excuse for falsifying vital 
information on multiple occasions necessary for an accurate background investigation. 
While he stated that he lea rned a valuable lesson from this experience, which I believe 
he did, his past actions still cast doubt on his reliability, trustworthiness , and judgment. 
AG ¶ 17(c) does not apply. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under t he whole-person concept, t he administrative j udge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all t he circumstances. The administrative judge should consider t he nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) t he nature, extent, and seriousness of t he conduct; (2) t he 
circumstances surrounding t he conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) t he frequency and recency of t he conduct; (4) t he 
individual’s age and maturity at t he time of t he conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) t he 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
7 
 
 
 
 
       
       
           
 
        
      
        
   
 
       
     
        
   
 
 
        
     
 
    
 
      
 
       
 
      
  
 
             
        
    
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), t he ultimate determination of w hether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I considered Applicant’s age, and the 
supportive statements of his coworkers and friends . However, I also considered 
Applicant’s multiple falsifications during his investigation. 
Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts about 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance . For all t hese reasons, I 
conclude App licant mitigated the drug involvement security concern s, but he failed to 
mitigate the personal conduct security concerns under Guideline E. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  H:   FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a-1.b:  For Applicant 
Paragraph  2, Guideline  E: AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  2.a-2.c:  Against Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of t he circumstances presented by t he record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Robert E. Coacher 
Administrative Judge 
8 