 
 
 
                                                              
                         
          
           
             
 
 
  
  
      
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
  
 
 
    
    
 
     
    
    
  
 
 
  
     
 
  
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 24-01956 
Appearances  
For Government: Tara R. Karoian, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
08/25/2025 
Decision 
LAFAYE, Gatha, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to provide sufficient evidence to mitigate security concerns raised 
under Guideline F (financial considerations). Eligibility for access to classified information 
is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on April 25, 2024. On 
November 27, 2024, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of Reasons 
(SOR) alleging security concerns under Guideline F . Applicant answered the SOR on 
December 23, 2024 (Answer) and elected to have his case decided on the written record 
in lieu of a hearing. He included documents with his Answer, which I labeled as Applicant 
Exhibit (AE) A through AE G for ease of reference. The case was assigned to me on June 
6, 2025. 
The Government’s written case was submitted on February 21, 2025. A complete 
copy of the file of relevant material (FORM) was provided to Applicant, who was given an 
opportunity to file objections and submit material to refute, extenuate, or mitigate the 
security concerns. Applicant received the FORM on March 2, 2025, and did not respond 
nor did he submit additional evidence. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
    
 
 
 
           
    
   
  
 
 
 
     
   
       
    
  
     
 
    
      
       
  
      
    
     
   
 
    
   
     
    
   
       
      
E
vidence  
Government Exhibit (GE) 1 and GE 2 consist of the SOR and Applicant’s Answer. 
GE 3 through GE 7 are admitted in evidence without objection. As stated above, 
documents Applicant included with his Answer are referred to as AE A through AE G in 
the decision. 
Findings of Fact  
In his Answer, Applicant admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a – 1.c, and 1.e – 
1.f, and denied the allegation in SOR ¶ 1.d. His admissions are incorporated in my 
findings of fact. After thorough review of the evidence, I make the following additional 
finding of facts. 
 Applicant is 55  years old.  He was born in Nicaragua, arrived in the United States  
in  1985, enlisted  in the U.S.  Army  on active duty  in April 2001, and became a naturalized  
U.S. citizen in November 2005.  He  was honorably discharged from the Army in November  
2015, and  enlisted in the  Army Reserve  a month later .  Applicant said he  voluntarily  
stopped participating in  his reserve drill assignments  due to financial hardship. In  March  
2017,  he was  discharged from the Army Reserve  with a  general (under honorable
conditions)  character of service.  (GE  3, 8)  
 
Applicant married in 2001 and divorced in 2004. He married a second time in 
December 2006, but he separated from his wife July 2017, and they currently live apart. 
Applicant and his wife have a 14 year-old son who resides with his wife in a different state. 
No information was provided concerning Applicant’s current financial support of his wife 
and son, but during his background interview in June 2024, he said he was not paying 
alimony or child support at the time. (GE 3, 8) 
Applicant enrolled in college in November 2015 after leaving the Army. He 
supported himself through college with 100% disability pay he receives from the 
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and his federal education benefits. He said he tried 
working but quickly realized he was unable to work while attending college as a full-time 
student, and he decided to focus solely on his education. He completed his bachelor’s 
and master’s degrees from the same college in December 2020 and December 2022, 
respectively. The record is unclear on whether he began working after he completed 
college in 2022. (AE A) 
In about 2017, Applicant said the Defense Finance and Accounting Service 
(DFAS) notified him that he was indebted to the federal government for $44,000 due to 
an overpayment of funds he received when he was discharged from the Army. Shortly 
after receiving notice of the debt, he said DFAS began garnishing his disability pay. He 
said he “barely had enough money to pay essential necessities” for the next two-to-three 
years and that it caused him to become delinquent on many of his debts. (AE A) In a letter 
dated July 3, 2024, DFAS confirmed that Applicant no longer had a recent or active 
2 
 
 
 
 
     
   
 
  
   
  
  
  
 
 
     
  
      
 
   
    
        
       
  
     
      
    
 
    
       
     
    
     
    
             
 
 
    
     
   
      
     
     
 
    
     
      
       
 
 
account in “Out-of-Service Debt and Claims,” confirming his overpayment debt had been 
paid in full. (GE 6; AE G) 
Applicant did not provide documentation or information about his current earnings, 
savings, checking, money-market, or other financial accounts ; nor did he provide 
documentation or information about his monthly household expenditures . It is unknown 
whether he contributed to the Thrift Savings Plan ( TSP) while serving in the Army, or 
whether he contributed to a 401(k) retirement plan or individual retirement account (IRA). 
The record is also void of any financial counseling and budgeting information. (GE 8) 
The SOR alleges five delinquent debts totaling about $31,000. As indicated above, 
Applicant admitted four of the alleged debts , and denied the debt in SOR ¶ 1.d. The 
evidence regarding the allegations in the SOR is summarized below: 
SOR ¶ 1.a ($10 ,766 charged off): Applicant admitted this debt , which is an 
individual account opened in 2007. The account was charged off in about 2022 after 
becoming 150 days past due. (GE 4) Applicant said he used this credit card for his daily 
needs but that he did not have income and could not pay the debt. (GE 8) In a January 
2025 letter, he said he reviewed his credit reports from the three major credit bureaus , 
and no delinquent account was found for this debt , and he plans to seek legal advice 
regarding delinquent debts that have been charged off and no longer appear in his credit 
bureau reports. (GE 4, 8; AE A - D) This debt is unresolved. 
SOR ¶ 1.b ($5,299 charged off) : Applicant admitted this debt, which is an 
individual account opened in May 2016. The account was charged off in about May 2018 
after becoming 180 days past due. The last payment he made on the debt occurred in 
December 2017. Applicant said he did not recall the specifics of this debt, and that it was 
no longer reflected in any of his credit reports . Similar to his comments in SOR ¶ 1.a, 
Applicant plans to seek legal advice regarding delinquent debts that have been charged 
off and no longer appear in his credit bureau reports. (GE 3 – 5, 8; AE A – D) This debt 
is unresolved. 
SOR ¶ 1.c ($ 4,791 charged off) : Applicant admitted this debt, which is an 
individual account opened in September 2014. The creditor charged off this debt after 
becoming 18 0 days past due in about 2022, and filed suit against the Applicant for 
collection of the debt.  Applicant settled the debt out of court for $7,728 in May 2023. He 
has paid $267 monthly since settlement, and provided proof he is current on payments. 
(GE 3 – 6; AE A, E, F) This debt is being resolved. 
SOR ¶ 1.d ($3,193 charged off): Applicant denied this debt, which is an individual 
account opened in 2006. Applicant said he did not recognize this debt and he contacted 
the creditor to learn more details. He said the account was opened during a time he was 
serving in the Army, and forward deployed to the Middle East. (GE 4, 5, 8; AE A – D) 
3 
 
 
 
 
         
       
    
     
  
 
     
   
   
    
  
        
 
    
    
       
   
 
       
    
     
    
    
      
   
     
     
 
 
  
    
    
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
    
 
   
SOR ¶ 1.e ($445 charged off): Applicant admitted he owed this debt to the federal 
government for another DFAS overpayment issue. (SOR Answer; GE 4) He said the 
account has been paid and he provided a letter from DFAS dated July 3, 2024, which 
says: “There is not a recent or active debt for you in Out -of-Service Debt and Claims.” 
(AE G) This debt is resolved. 
SOR ¶ 1.f ($6,748 charged off) : Applicant admitted this debt, which is an 
individual account first opened in November 2008. The account was charged off in about 
August 2018 after becoming 180 days past due. The last payment he made on the debt 
occurred in June 2018. Similar to his comments in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b above, Applicant 
plans to seek legal advice regarding delinquent debts that have been charged off and no 
longer appear in his credit bureau reports. (GE 4, 5, 8; AE A – D) This debt is unresolved. 
In June 2024, Applicant informed the DOD investigator that his current financial 
situation was good, he pays his bills on time, and that he has not created new debts he 
cannot afford to repay . He said he spends his income on his mortgage and other living 
expenses. (GE 8) 
Applicant’s current employment status is unknown. He made several significant 
purchases between 2019 and 2024, as evidenced by his October 2024 credit bureau 
reports. In 2019, he purchased a car with a loan of about $45,800 and he paid the full 
balance in April 2022. In April 2022, he purchased a nother car with a loan of about 
$49,000 and paid the full balance in August 2022. More recently in September 2024, he 
purchased a car with a loan of about $45,600 and per the loan terms, he pays $805 per 
month for 71 months. In September 2022, he also opened a credit card account with a 
credit limit of $20,000. The high est balance of the account , reported in October 2024, 
exceeded the credit limit at $20,262. He pays $492 per month on the debt. (GE 5, 7) 
Policies  
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines (AG), which became 
effective on June 8, 2017. 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c), 
4 
 
 
 
 
  
    
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
     
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
     
  
   
  
  
  
 
  
 
    
  
 
  
 
 
 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off-duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
 Guideline F, Financial Considerations  
The trustworthiness  concern for financial considerations  is set  out in AG ¶  18:  
Failure to live within one’s means, satisfy debts,  and meet financial  
obligations may  indicate poor  self-control, lack of judgment, or  
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise  
questions about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to  
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial  distress can  also  be 
caused or exacerbated by,  and thus can be a possible indicator of, other  
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling,  mental  
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An  
individual who is financially overe xtended is at greater risk of having to  
engage in illegal  or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds.  
5 
 
 
 
 
    
    
 
 
   
 
 
    
 
   
     
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
 
 
     
  
 
     
       
       
      
  
    
 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise trustworthiness concerns 
under AG ¶ 19. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a)  i nability to satisfy  debts;  and  
(c)  a his
tory of not meeting financial obligations. 
Applicant’s admissions and the evidence in this FORM establish the above 
disqualifying conditions, and AG ¶¶ 19(a) and 19(c) are applicable. 
Conditions that could mitigate the financial considerations trustworthiness 
concerns are provided under AG ¶ 20. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a)  t he behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast doubt  
on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good judgment;  
(b)  t he conditions that resulted in the financial  problem were largely beyond  
the per son's  control (e.g.,  loss of  employment, a business downturn,  
unexpected medical  emergency, a death, divorce or separation, clear  
victimization by  predatory  lending practices,  or identity theft),  and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;   
(c)  t he individual  has received or is receiving financial counseling for the  
problem from  a legitimate and credible source, such as a non- profit credit  
counseling service,  and there are clear indications that the problem is being  
resolved or is under control;   
(d)  the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- f aith effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  and  
(e)  the i
ndividual has a reasonable basis to dispute the legitimacy of the 
past-due debt which is the cause of the problem and provides documented 
proof to substantiate the basis of the dispute or provides evidence of actions 
to resolve the issue. 
AG ¶¶ 20(a) , 20(c), and 20(d) are not fully established. Applicant’s delinquent 
debts are recent, ongoing, and three significant debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, and 1.f remain 
unresolved. He has not produced evidence of recent financial counseling, contacts with 
creditors as to these debts , payments, payment plans, or any other evidence of efforts 
made to resolve these delinquent debts. He is credited with taking steps to resolve the 
debt in SOR ¶ 1.c and providing proof of its resolution. Though he established a payment 
plan only after the creditor in SOR 1.c filed suit, he has established a track record of 
paying and is credited with consistently complying with the terms of the agreement. AG ¶ 
20(d) is established for the debts alleged in in SOR ¶¶ 1.c and 1.e, which are resolved in 
Applicant’s favor. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 AG ¶ 20(b) is not  fully  established.  Applicant attributed his financial  situation to  the 
garnishment of his disability pay  because of a $44,000  debt  for the overpayment of funds  
he received  at his discharge from the Army.  DFAS started garnishing his  disability pay in  
2017  and concluded its recoupment of funds  at an unknown  time. Though the recoupment  
of funds  under the circumstances  were undoubtedly  surprising and not under Applicant’s  
control, Applicant failed to provide  sufficient  evidence about  his finances  at  that time  to 
properly  evaluate. It is noteworthy  that Applicant’s  financial situation around that time  
permitted him to purchase three cars  between 2019 and 2024, each with a loan  amount  
above $45,000. He was also able to secure a $20,000 credit  limit on a new credit  card  in 
2022, and by October  2024, he had made purchases  exceeding  the limit. In short, there  
is no indication that Applicant  acted responsibly  as to the debts in  SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, and  
1.f. He most recently stated he intends  to get legal advice on what he should do about  
these debts  because all had been charged off and no longer  appear  in his  credit  bureau 
reports.  There is insufficient evidence to establish that Applicant  has  taken meaningful  
steps to  sufficiently  address  these debts. His  evidence is insufficient  to mitigate financial  
considerations security concerns  for the debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, and  1.f.  
 
     
    
      
   
 
     
   
    
    
  
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
  
A
G ¶ 20(e) is established for the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.d. Applicant disputed this 
debt after he spoke with the creditor and understood that the debt was incurred during 
the period he was forward deployed to the Middle East with his Army unit. AG ¶ 20(e) is 
established and SOR ¶ 1.d is decided for Applicant. 
There is insufficient evidence to determine that Applicant’s financial problems will 
be resolved within a reasonable time. I am unable to find he acted responsibly under the 
circumstances or that he made a good- faith effort to pay his debts. His financial issues 
continue to cast doubt on his current reliability, trustworthiness, and judgment. I find that 
financial considerations security concerns remain a concern here. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. In applying the whole-
person concept, an administrative judge must evaluate an applicant’s eligibility for a 
security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct and all relevant 
circumstances. An administrative judge should consider the nine adjudicative process 
factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
7 
 
 
 
 
     
  
     
  
   
 
  
   
  
 
 
      
    
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
     
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
I have incorporated my comments under Guideline F in my whole-person analysis 
and applied the adjudicative factors in AG ¶ 2(d). Because this case is decided on the 
written record, I had no opportunity to question Applicant about any of the security 
concerns in the case, nor did I have an opportunity to observe his demeanor and thereby 
assess his credibility. 
Therefore, after weighing the disqualifying and mitigating conditions under 
Guideline F and evaluating all evidence in the whole-person context, I conclude Applicant 
failed to mitigate the security concerns raised in this case. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  Guideline F:  AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 1.a, 1.b, 1.f:  Against  Applicant  
Subparagraphs 1.c,  1.d, 1.e:  For Applicant  
Conclusion  
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant’s eligibility 
for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Gatha LaFaye 
Administrative Judge 
8 