 
 
 
 
                                                              
                             
          
           
             
 
 
    
  
       
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
      
    
       
        
       
     
    
    
     
    
 
         
      
         
       
      
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00598 
) 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Aubrey De Angelis, Esquire, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
01/13/2025 
Decision 
CEFOLA, Richard A., Administrative Judge: 
On August 22, 2019, and on December 7, 2022 , Applicant submitted his 
Electronic Questionnaires for Investigations Processing (e-QIPs). On June 13, 2024, the 
Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency Consolidated Adjudication Services 
(DCSA CAS) issued Applicant a Statement of Reasons (SOR) detailing security 
concerns under Guideline s H (Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse) and J 
(Criminal Conduct). The action was taken under Executive Order 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of 
Defense Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the Adjudicative Guidelines 
effective June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR in writing on June 24, 2024 , and requested a 
hearing before an administrative judge. Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals 
(DOHA) received the request on August 12, 2024 . I received the case assignment on 
August 12, 2024 . DOHA issued a Notice of H earing on August 16, 2024 , and I 
convened the hearing as scheduled on September 26, 2024 . The Government offered 
1 
 
 
 
 
           
            
        
       
           
        
 
 
 
         
          
       
        
    
 
        
          
           
   
 
 
    
         
          
      
 
 
      
  
 
  
     
        
 
 
      
          
            
  
 
    
        
Exhibits (GXs) 1 through 6, which were received into evidence without objection. 
Applicant testified on his own behalf. He also asked that the record be kept open until 
October 25, 2024, for the receipt of additional documentation. Applicant submitted 
Exhibits (AppXs) A through D, which were received into evidence without objection . 
DOHA received th e transcript of the hearing (TR ) on October 8, 2024 . Based upon a 
review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, eligibility for access to classified 
information is denied. 
Findings of Fact  
In his Answer to the SOR Applicant admitted the factual allegations in Paragraph 
1 of the SOR, with explanations. He denies the alleged drug involvement “while granted 
access to classified information and employed in a sensitive position.” This denial is 
contrary to Applicant’s admissions on his on his December 2022 SCA. (GX 2 at pages 
29~31.) Applicant admits the factual allegations in Paragraph 2 of the SOR. 
Applicant is 23 years old, unmarried, and has no children. He work ed for a 
defense contractor as a summer intern each year from June of 2019, until he became a 
full-time employee in June of 2022. (GX 1 at page 11, and GX 2 at pages 5, 11 and 18 .) 
Applicant was granted a Secret security clearance on March 4, 2020. (GX 4.) 
Guideline  H –  Drug  Involvement  and  Substance  Misuse  &  Guideline  J  - Criminal 
Conduct  
 
1.a.  and  2.a. Applicant used Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) edibles , about 12 
times, over a period of more than two years, from about February 2020 to about 
November 2022. (TR at page 14 line 21 to page 17 line 19.) His usage after March 4, 
2020, was after having been granted a security clearance. This usage also constitutes 
criminal conduct. 
1.b. and  2.a. Applicant used Lysergic Acid Diethylamide (LSD), once in February 
2020. (TR at page 17 line 20 to page 18 line 2.) His usage constitutes criminal conduct. 
1.c.  and  2.a. Applicant used psychedelic mushrooms, about four times, over a 
period of about ten months, from about January 2022 to about October 2022. (TR at 
page 18 lines 3~21.) His usage was after having been granted a security clearance. 
This usage also constitutes criminal conduct. 
1.d. and  2.a. Applicant used Cocaine, about 20 times, over a period of about t wo 
years, from about November 2020 to about November 2022. (TR at page 18 line 2 2 to 
page 19 line 24 .) His usage was after having been granted a security clearance. This 
usage also constitutes criminal conduct. 
1.e.  and  2.a. Applicant used Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA), about 
three times, over a period of about one year, from about November 2021 to about 
2 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
      
       
         
  
 
    
           
             
 
 
        
  
 
 
       
        
       
     
   
 
          
    
           
     
         
      
      
    
 
       
    
       
           
        
 
 
        
       
       
      
     
 
November 2022. (TR at page 20 lines 11~18.) His usage was after having been granted 
a security clearance. This usage also constitutes criminal conduct. 
1.f. and  2.a. Applicant used Adderall without a prescription, about six times, over 
a period of about eleven months, from about January 2022 to about November 2022. 
(TR at page 21 lines 1~12, and at page 22 lines 2~6 .) His usage was after having been 
granted a security clearance. This usage also constitutes criminal conduct. 
1.g.  and  2.a. Applicant used Ketamine without a prescription, about six times, 
over a period of about nine months, from about February 2022 to about October 2022. 
(TR at page 21 line 13 to page 22 line 1.) His usage was after having been granted a 
security clearance. This usage also constitutes criminal conduct. 
Applicant has signed a statement of intent to abstain from all drug involvement 
and substance misuse in the future. (AppX C.) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are use ful in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The 
administrative judge’s over arching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and 
commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a ), the entire process is a conscientious 
scrutiny of a number o f variables known as the whole -person concept. The 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I 
have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical and based on the 
evidence contained in the record. Likewise, I have avoided drawing inferences 
grounded on mere speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel , and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable clearance decision.” 
3 
 
 
 
 
          
          
     
            
    
           
        
        
  
  
 
 
 
        
 
 
 
        
 
 
 
 
        
 
 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration 
of the possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or 
safeguard classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally 
permissible extrapolation as to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of 
classified information. 
Section  7  of  Executive  Order 10865  provides  that decisions shall  be  “in  terms of  
the  national  interest and  shall  in  no  sense  be  a  determination  as  to  the  loyalty of the  
applicant concerned.” See  also  EO 12968,  Section  3.1(b) (listing  multiple  prerequisites  
for access to classified or sensitive information).    
Analysis  
Guideline H - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Drug Involvement and 
Substance Misuse is set forth at AG ¶ 24: 
The  illegal use  of controlled  substances,  to  include  the  misuse  of  
prescription  and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances 
that  cause  physical or mental impairment  or are  used  in a  manner  
inconsistent with  their  intended  purpose  can  raise  questions about an  
individual's reliability and  trustworthiness, both  because  such  behavior  
may lead  to  physical or psychological impairment and  because  it raises 
questions about  a  person's ability or  willingness to  comply  with  laws,  rules,  
and  regulations. Controlled  substance  means any  "controlled  substance"  
as defined  in  21  U.S.C. 802. Substance  misuse  is the  generic term  
adopted in this guideline to  describe any of the behaviors listed above.  
The guideline at AG ¶ 25 contains seven conditions that could raise a security 
concern and may be disqualifying. Three conditions are established: 
(a) any substance  misu se (see above  definition);  
(c)  illegal possession  of a  controlled  substance, including  cultivation,  
processing, manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession  of  
drug paraphernalia; and  
(f) any illegal drug use while granted access to classified information or 
holding a sensitive position. 
4 
 
 
 
 
     
        
 
       
    
 
 
 
 
 
       
     
   
 
 
         
       
 
      
    
 
 
        
   
 
 
 
          
   
 
       
      
Appellant used THC, LSD, psychedelic mushrooms, Cocaine, MDMA, and 
Adderall and Ketamine without prescriptions . He had a security clearance for his job at 
that time. Therefore, AG ¶ 25 (a), (c), and (f) are established. 
The guideline at AG ¶ 26 contains four conditions that could mitigate security 
concerns. Two conditions may be applicable: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or happened  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur or does  not cast  doubt  
on  the  individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  judgment;  
and  
(b) the  individual acknowledges his or  her drug  involvement and  
substance  misuse, provides evidence  of actions taken  to  overcome  this  
problem, and  has established  a  pattern  of abstinence,  including,  but  not  
limited to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts;   
(2) changing  or avoiding  the  environment where drugs were  
used; and   
(3) providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all 
drug involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that 
any future involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation 
of national security eligibility. 
Although Applicant has signed a letter of intent against future drug usage, his 
extensive usage ended in December 2022, only about two years ago. It is too soon to 
determine whether his past usage is not of present security significance. This should not 
dissuade Applicant from applying for a security clearance in the future, however, for 
now Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse is found against Applicant. 
Guideline J  - Criminal Conduct  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Criminal Conduct is set out in 
AG ¶ 30: 
Criminal activity  creates doubt about  a  person's judgment,  reliability, and
trustworthiness. By its  very nature, it calls into  question  a  person's  ability
or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and  regulations.  
 
 
The guideline at AG ¶ 31 contains five disqualifying conditions that could raise a 
security concern and may be disqualifying. Two conditions apply, as discussed below: 
(a) a pattern of minor offenses, any one of which on its own would be 
unlikely to affect a national security eligibility decision, but which in 
5 
 
 
 
 
     
 
     
 
  
 
 
     
        
  
 
          
 
 
 
 
 
  
     
       
   
 
 
         
        
      
           
         
       
 
 
 
         
      
        
   
 
combination cast doubt on the individual's judgment, reliability, or 
trustworthiness; and 
(b) evidence (including, but not limited to, a credible allegation, an 
admission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of 
whether the individual was formally charged, prosecuted, or convicted. 
Applicant’s extensive use of illegal substances occurred from February of 2020 to 
November of 2022, a period of nearly three years. This evidence raises security 
concerns under these disqualifying conditions , thereby shifting the burden to Applicant 
to rebut, extenuate, or mitigate those concerns. 
The guideline in AG ¶ 32 contains four conditions that could mitigate criminal 
conduct security concerns: 
(a) so  much  time  has elapsed  since  the  criminal behavior  happened, or it  
happened  under such  unusual circumstances, that it  is unlikely to  recur 
and  does not cast doubt on  the  individual's reliability, trustworthiness, or  
good judgment;  
(b) the  individual was  pressured  or coerced  into  committing  the  act and  
those pressures are no longer present in the person's life;  
(c)  no  reliable evidence  to  support that the  individual committed  the  
offense; and  
(d) there is evidence of successful rehabilitation; including, but not limited 
to, the passage of time without recurrence of criminal activity, restitution, 
compliance with the terms of parole or probation, job training or higher 
education, good employment record, or constructive community 
involvement. 
None of these apply. Sufficient time has not passed since Applicant’s last act of 
criminal conduct: use of THC, Cocaine and Adderall in November 2022 . Although he 
provided some evidence of rehabilitation, including a history of successful work with his 
employer (AppX A), that evidence does not outweigh the fact that he demonstrated a 
two-plus year history of disregarding the law from 20 20 to 2022. The evidence does not 
establish mitigation under any of the above conditions. Criminal Conduct is found 
against Applicant. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole -person concept, the administrative j udge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of an applicant’s 
conduct and all the circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          
       
          
        
 
       
        
      
       
          
          
 
 
 
      
 
 
     
 
      
 
    
 
        
 
 
             
       
     
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
_________________ 
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of
rehabilitation  and  other permanent  behavioral changes;  (7) the  motivation
for the  conduct;  (8) the  potential  for pressure, coercion,  exploitation, or
duress;  and (9) the likelihood  of continuation  or recurrence.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AG ¶ 2(b) requires each case must be judged on its own merits. Under AG ¶ 
2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a security clearance 
must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration of the 
guidelines and the whole person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
the facts and circumstances surrounding this case. Applicant is respected by his 
manager in the workplace . (AppX A.) However, o verall, the record evidence leaves me 
with questions and doubts as to Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security 
clearance. For all these reasons, I conclude App licant has not mitigated the security 
concerns arising from his Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse, and his related 
Criminal Conduct. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by ¶ E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline H:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a~1.g:  Against Applicant 
Paragraph  2, Guideline J:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  2.a: Against Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant national security eligibility 
for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Richard A. Cefola 
Administrative Judge 
7 