 
                                     
                       DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE                          
     DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS  
           
                               
    
             
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
       
        
        
      
   
  
   
 
______________ 
______________ 
In the  matter of:  )  
 )  
            )   ISCR  Case  No.  24-00237  
  )  
Applicant for Security Clearance  )  
Appearances  
For Government: 
Andrew Henderson, Esquire, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: 
Carl Marrone, Esquire 
National Security Law Firm 
03/19/2025 
Decision  
ROSS, Wilford H., Administrative Judge: 
Statement  of the Case  
On April 11, 2024 , the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guidelines H (Drug 
Involvement and Substance Misuse) and E (Personal Conduct). The action was taken 
under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry 
(February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel 
Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the 
adjudicative guidelines (AG) implemented by the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
        
      
        
  
 
 
 
     
       
  
 
Applicant responded  to  the  SOR in writing  (Answer)  on  April 29, 2024, with  
attachments, and  requested  a hearing  before an  administrative  judge. Department  
Counsel was prepared  to  proceed  on  May 29, 2024. The  case  was assigned  to  me  on  
June  6, 2024. The  Defense  Office  of Hearings and  Appeals (DOHA) issued  a  Notice of  
Hearing  on  July  17, 2024. I convened  the  hearing  as  scheduled  on  September 5, 2024. 
The  Government offered  Government Exhibits 1  through  10,  which  were  admitted  without  
objection. Applicant testified  on  his  own behalf and  submitted  Applicant Exhibits A  through  
G.  He asked  that the  record to  remain  open  for the  receipt of additional information.  He  
submitted  Applicant Exhibit H in a  timely fashion. Applicant’s exhibits were  admitted  
without objection. DOHA received  the  transcript of the  hearing  (Tr.)  on  September 20, 
2024.  
Findings of Fact  
Applicant  is 37  years old and  married  with  one  child. He has a  high  school diploma.  
He served  in the  Air  Force from  May 2007  to  July 2022. He has worked  for a  defense  
contractor since  August 2022  as a  general flight mechanic. He held a  security clearance  
during  his time  in the  Air  Force and  seeks to  retain it  in his current employment. 
(Government  Exhibit 1  at  Sections  12, 13A,  15,  17,  and  18; Applicant  Exhibit  H; Tr.  51-
52.)   
Guideline H: Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse  
The Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency Central Adjudication 
Services (DCSA CAS) alleged that Applicant is not eligible for access because he has 
used illegal drugs. The incident s discussed below also involves possible adverse 
personal conduct on his part. He admitted the allegations under this paragraph with 
explanations. 
1.a  –  1.c.  Applicant  provided  a  urinalysis sample  on  December 16,  2021,  while a 
member of  the  Air  Force in  the  grade  of  staff  sergeant  (E-5). The  sample  tested  positive  
for Delta-9-Tetrahydrocannabinaol (THC9) at 49  ng/ml. The  Air  Force  Drug  Testing  
Laboratory, Brooks  (DTL) reported  the  results to  Applicant’s then  command  on  January  
10, 2022. The  DoD cutoff  for T HC9  is 15  ng/ml. At the  time  of his positive urinalysis 
Applicant  had  been  determined  eligible  for a  Top  Secret  clearance  since  2007. 
(Government Exhibits  3 through 8; Tr. 62-64.)  
Applicant received non -judicial punishment for his use of marijuana. He was 
reduced in rank to senior airman (E -4). He was subsequently discharged from the Air 
Force with an Honorable Discharge. (Applicant Exhibit H; Tr. 64-68, 92-93.) 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
          
         
         
      
         
          
         
  
 
  An  expert witness testified  at the  hearing. She  is the  Air  Force  Drug  Testing  
Program  Deputy Program Manager. Her curriculum vitae is found at Government Exhibit  
10. Her testimony included  how Applicant’s  sample  was received,  handled, and  tested  at  
the  DTL, including  the  fact that there were  no  noted  handling  or testing  errors. She  
confirmed  that Applicant’s  sample tested  positive  for THC9  during  the  initial analysis and  
in the confirmation analysis.  (Tr. 16-23.)  
 
           
         
     
 
 
 
       
   
 
    
         
     
  
 
Applicant has repeatedly stated that he has never used marijuana or any product 
containing THC9 in his life. He argues that the positive result must have been the result 
of accidental ingestion. Specifically, first he stated that it is the result of passive inhalation 
of marijuana smoke since his wife is a habitual marijuana smoker. Second , he argued 
that the positive result was the result of his ingesting his wife’s breast milk during sexual 
relations. Finally, he stated that the positive result may have been the result of consuming 
food containing THC. Again, this is because his wife has THC edibles in their house. 
Other than his testimony there is no corroborating evidence of any of the three scenarios. 
(Tr. 55, 69-74, 85-92.) 
The witness was asked her opinion about the three scenarios posited by Applicant. 
With regard to passive inhalation, she stated that research has shown that THC9 levels 
raised by passive inhalation do not reach the DoD cutoff of 15ng/ml. (Tr. 23-25.) 
The  witness was also asked  her opinion  about the  possibility Applicant had  
ingested  a  sufficient quantity   of  his wife’s breast milk to  test positive. She  had  done  
research on  this point  at the  time  Applicant  was investigated  by the  Air  Force  for his  
positive urinalysis  in  2021  and  2022. Based  on  her research she  opined  that it  was not  
possible  for Applicant to  have  a  49  ng/ml urinalysis for THC9 after ingesting  breast  milk.  
Her research showed  that the  THC9 quantities in breast milk were  insufficient to  show a  
positive  result  in  an  adult.  There  is  limited  research  showing  that  it might  show up  in  a  
baby’s urine. (Government Exhibit 4; Applicant Exhibit G; Tr. 25-48.)  
With regard to the accidental ingestion of THC in edibles, the witness did not have 
sufficient information to make an informed opinion. (Tr. 26-28.) 
1.d. Applicant was arrested for simple possession of cannabis in 2006. He has 
repeatedly stated that the drugs actually belonged to a friend. The case was eventually 
dismissed. This incident is attenuated by time and has no current security significance. 
(Answer; Tr. 52-59, 82-84, 93-94.) 
Paragraph 2 (Guideline E, Personal Conduct)  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
     
  
 
 
      
   
 
 
         
        
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance 
because he has engaged in conduct that shows poor judgment, untrustworthiness, or 
unreliability. 
2.a. This allegation  states that the  information  set forth  under Paragraph  1, above, 
is cognizable  under this paragraph. Applicant stated  in his Answer, “I admit to  testing  
positive,  but deny that I used a controlled substance.”  
Applicant filled out h is e-QIP on May 4, 2023 . (Government Exhibit 1.) The 
following three allegations are in regard to that e-QIP. 
2.b.  Section  23  of  the  questionnaire  concerns his illegal use  of drugs or drug  
activity. One  subsection  asks  whether, “In  the  last  seven  years, have  you  illegally used  
any drugs or controlled  substance?” Applicant answered, “No.” This was a  false answer  
to a relevant question  about his drug  history.  
In his Answer Applicant stated, “By my understanding of ‘use’ to be deliberate, I 
deny having illegally used a controlled substance. My response of ‘No’ was due to my not 
having intentionally used drugs.” (See Tr. 74-75.) 
2.c.  A  separate  subsection  asked  Applicant,  “Have  you  EVER  illegally used  or  
otherwise been  illegally involved  with  a  drug  or controlled  substance  while possessing  a  
security clearance   other than   previously listed?” (Emphasis in  original.) Applicant  
answered, “No.” This was a false answer to  a relevant question  about his drug history.  
Applicant stated in his Answer: 
By my understanding  of “use”  to  be  deliberate, I deny having  illegally used  
a  controlled  substance  or been  involved  with  “other than  previously listed.”  
I had  not knowingly used  any substance, as  my ingestion  was  
“unknown/accidental ingestion.” I now understand  that I should have  gained  
more clarity on  how to  answer the  question  given  the  circumstances that  
led to my discharge from the Air Force. (See  Tr. 76.)  
2.d. Section  22  of the  questionnaire  concerns Applicant’s police  record. He was 
asked,  “Other than  those  offenses  already listed, have  you  EVER had  the  following  
happen  to  you?  . .  .  Have  you  EVER  been  charged  with  an  offense  involving  alcohol or  
drugs?” (All  emphasis in original.) Applicant answered, “No.” This was a  false answer to  
a  relevant question  about his police  record  that included  the  2006  drug  offense  discussed  
under subparagraph  1.d, above.  
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
      
        
        
     
  
 
 
        
  
 
        
        
      
 
 
      
          
   
        
   
 
           
      
         
       
   
      
            
 
 
      
     
         
       
       
 
 
Applicant argues that this was an oversight on his part. He stated that this arrest 
had been listed on previous questionnaires, and he interpreted the question as including 
prior questionnaires. In addition, he had told his recruiter about the incident and was 
interviewed by a Government investigator concerning the incident, who prepared a Report 
of Investigation (ROI) . The ROI is contained in the record as Government Exhibit 9 . 
(Answer; Government Exhibit 9; Tr. 76-78, 80-81.) 
Mitigation  
Applicant submitted a signed statement of intent not to use marijuana or any other 
illegal drugs in the future. (Applicant Exhibit A.) 
Applicant submitted letters of recommendation from members of the Air Force and 
his civilian pastor. They mainly concern his work in the Air Force and are laudatory. H e 
received accolades for his service in the Air Force. (Applicant Exhibits B, C, D, E, and F.) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s national security eligibility for a security clearance, 
the administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines (AG) list 
potentially disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in 
evaluating an applicant’s national security eligibility. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. The entire 
process is a conscientious scrutiny of applicable guidelines in the context of a number of 
variables known as the whole -person concept. The administrative judge must conside r 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires, “Any doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. I have not drawn inferences based on mere speculation or 
conjecture. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
        
 
 
Directive ¶  E3.1.14, requires the  Government to  present evidence  to  establish  
controverted  facts  alleged  in the  SOR. Under Directive ¶  E3.1.15, “The  applicant is   
responsible  for presenting  witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or  
mitigate  facts admitted  by the  applicant or proven  by Department Counsel, and  has the  
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining  a favorable clearance  decision.”  
A  person  who  seeks  access to  classified  information  enters into  a  fiduciary  
relationship  with  the  Government predicated  upon  trust and  confidence. This relationship  
transcends normal duty hours and  endures throughout off-duty  hours. The  Government  
reposes  a  high  degree  of trust and  confidence  in individuals to  whom  it grants national  
security eligibility.  Decisions include, by necessity, consideration  of the  possible  risk the  
applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail  to  protect or safeguard classifi ed 
information. Such  decisions entail  a  certain degree  of legally permissible  extrapolation  as  
to  potential, rather than  actual, risk of  compromise of classified  or sensitive information.  
Finally, as emphasized  in Section  7  of Executive  Order 10865, “Any determination  under  
this order adverse to  an  applicant  shall  be  a  determination  in  terms of the  national interest  
and  shall  in no  sense  be  a  determination  as to  the  loyalty of  the  applicant  concerned.”  
See also Executive  Order 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing  multiple prerequisites  for access  
to classified or sensitive information.)  
Analysis  
Guideline H –  Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
The security concern relating to Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse is set 
forth in AG ¶ 24: 
The  illegal use  of controlled  substances,  to  include  the  misuse  of  
prescription  and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances 
that  cause  physical or mental impairment  or are  used  in a  manner  
inconsistent with  their  intended  purpose  can  raise  questions about an  
individual’s reliability and  trustworthiness, both  because  such  behavior may  
lead  to  physical or psychological impairment and  because  it raises  
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules,  
and  regulations. Controlled  substance  means  any “controlled  substance” as  
defined  in  21  U.S.C.  §802.  Substance  misuse  is the  generic term  adopted  
in this guideline to describe any of the  behaviors listed above.  
I have examined the disqualifying conditions under AG ¶ 25 and especially 
considered the following: 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
           
   
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
          
      
          
       
  
 
         
         
      
      
(a) any substance  misuse (see above  definition);  
(b) testing positive for an illegal drug; and  
(f)  any illegal drug  use  while granted  access to  classified  information  or  
holding a sensitive position.  
Applicant tested positive for the presence of THC9 while he was a member of the 
Air Force and had a security clearance. All three of the stated disqualifying conditions 
have application to this case. 
The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 26 have also been considered: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or happened  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur or does  not cast  doubt  
on  the  individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  judgment;  and  
(b) the  individual acknowledges his or her drug  involvement and  substance  
misuse,  provides evidence  of actions taken  to  overcome  this problem, and  
has established  a pattern of abstinence, including, but not limited  to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts;  
(2) changing  or avoiding  the  environment  where drugs  were  used; 
and  
(3) providing  a  signed  statement of intent  to  abstain from  all  drug  
involvement and  substance  misuse, acknowledging  that any future  
involvement or misuse  is grounds for revocation  of national security  
eligibility.  
Applicant had a positive urinalysis test for THC9 in 2021. He argued that he had 
never knowingly used marijuana. He further argued that his positive drug test was due to 
accidental ingestion in one of several ways , with emphasis on ingestion of his wife’s 
breast milk. To be successful Applicant must show that accidental ingestion of marijuana 
as he argued is possible, plausible, and probable. 
This argument fails due to lack of corroborating evidence. There is some evidence 
that a person can test positive for THC9 through accidental ingestion. Even assuming 
that such a result is plausible, there is no evidence that it was probable or actually 
occurred to his sample. Applicant was unable to successfully rebut the expert witness ’s 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          
         
       
      
   
          
    
 
 
       
  
 
    
      
    
      
    
  
  
  
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
testimony that accidental ingestion as he argued was not possible. The burden in these 
cases is on Applicant to show by a preponderance of the evidence that his version of the 
facts is correct and mitigates security concerns. His evidence as stated does not meet 
that standard. His refusal to acknowledge his drug involvement and substance misuse, 
while holding a security clearance, casts doubt on his current, reliability, trustworthiness, 
and judgment. As stated, subparagraph 1.d is found for Applicant due t o the passage of 
time. The Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse guideline is found against Applicant. 
Paragraph 2 (Guideline E, Personal Conduct)  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Personal Conduct is set out in 
AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. O f special interest is any failure to 
cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes. The following will normally result in 
an unfavorable national security eligibility determination, security clearance 
action, or cancellation of further processing for national security eligibility: 
(a) refusal, or failure without reasonable  cause, to  undergo  or cooperate  
with  security processing, including  but not limited  to  meeting  with  a  security  
investigator for subject interview, completing  security forms or releases,  
cooperation  with  medical or psychological evaluation, or polygraph  
examination, if authorized and required; and  
(b) refusal  to  provide  full, frank, and  truthful  answers to  lawful questions of  
investigators, security officials, or other  official representatives in  
connection with a  personnel security or trustworthiness determination.  
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 16. Two are possibly applicable in this case: 
(a) deliberate  omission, concealment,  or falsification  of relevant facts from  
any personnel  security questionnaire, personal history statement,  or similar  
form  used  to  conduct investigations,  determine  employment qualifications,  
award  benefits or status, determine  national security eligibility or 
trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities; and  
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
         
      
 
    
 
 
 
 
      
       
          
 
 
         
           
        
          
     
 
 
(c) credible  adverse information  in several adjudicative issue  areas  that is  
not sufficient for an  adverse determination  under any other single guideline,  
but which, when  considered  as a  whole, supports a  whole-person  
assessment  of  questionable  judgment, untrustworthiness,  unreliability, lack  
of candor, unwillingness to  comply with  rules or regulations, or other 
characteristics indicating  that  the  individual  may  not properly safeguard  
classified or sensitive information.  
Applicant tested positive for THC9, refused to admit his marijuana use , and 
falsified answers on his e -QIP regarding his drug abuse history. The disqualifying 
conditions apply and shift the burden to Applicant to mitigate them. 
I have considered the following potentially mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 17: 
(a) the  individual made  prompt,  good-faith  efforts to  correct the  omission,  
concealment,  or falsification  before being confronted with the facts;  
(c)  the  offense  is so  minor, or so  much  time  has passed, or the  behavior is 
so  infrequent, or it happened  under such  unique  circumstances that it is 
unlikely to  recur and  does  not  cast  doubt on  the  individual's reliability,  
trustworthiness, or good judgment;  and  
(d) the  individual has acknowledged  the  behavior and  obtained  counseling  
to  change  the  behavior or taken  other positive steps to  alleviate  the  
stressors, circumstances, or  factors that  contributed  to  untrustworthy, 
unreliable, or other inappropriate behavior, and such  behavior is unlikely to  
recur.  
None of the mitigating conditions apply in this case , except in regard to 
subparagraph 2.d. Applicant’s conduct in using marijuana, testing positive for such use , 
and falsifying answers regarding relevant facts on his questionnaire about his drug abuse 
was knowing and intentional. 
Applicant argued that his negative answer about the 2006 arrest was not 
falsification in that it had been listed on previous questionnaires and he had been 
interviewed about it by the Government. His argument has some merit. With regard to 
subparagraph 2.d only , I find Applicant did not have the requisite intent to falsify his 
response. That subparagraph is found for Applicant. Otherwise, t he Personal Conduct 
guideline is found against Applicant. 
Whole-Person Concept  
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
   
      
   
 
 
        
          
     
 
       
       
    
         
        
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
    
Under the whole -person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for national security eligibility by considering the totality of the 
applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should 
consider the nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  
and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct;  
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant national security 
eligibility for a security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon 
careful consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
pertinent facts and circumstances surrounding this case. Applicant has not mitigated the 
security concerns of his illegal drug use and related personal conduct, except as stated. 
As set forth elsewhere in this decision, and supported by the evidence, Applicant has not 
acknowledged his drug use. Without such an acknowledgement, he cannot be eligible. 
His conduct has not earned him the privilege of being granted national security eligibility. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by ¶ E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
    
 
     
 
     
 
      
 
       
 
 
                                                  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  H:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 1.a  through  1.c:  Against Applicant 
Subparagraph  1.d:  For Applicant 
Paragraph  2, Guideline  E:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  2.a  through 2.c:  Against Applicant 
Subparagraph  2.d:  For Applicant. 
Conclusion  
In  light of  all  of the  circumstances  presented  by  the  record in  this case,  it is  not  
clearly consistent   with  the  national  interest to  grant  or  continue  Applicant’s national   
security eligibility for a  security clearance.  Eligibility for access to  classified  information  is  
denied.  
WILFORD H. ROSS 
Administrative Judge 
11 