 
 
                                                              
                             
          
           
             
 
 
     
         
      
    
    
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
     
    
 
 
   
  
  
    
  
    
   
 
     
  
   
  
 
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
\-\E~/. 
ft 
o .,~ n¥.~lll.; o ~ t 
f 
In the mat
ter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00076 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Daniel O’Reilley, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
09/05/2025 
Decision 
OLMOS, Bryan J., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to mitigate t he security concerns raised under Guideline F 
(Financial Considerations). Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On May 9, 2024, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline F. The DOD 
issued the SOR under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified 
Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 5220.6, 
Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as 
amended (Directive); and the Security Executive Agent Directive 4 (SEAD 4), National 
Security Adjudicative Guidelines (AG), effective June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR on June 17, 2024 (Answer ) and requested a 
hearing before a n administrative judge from the Defense Office of Hearings and 
Appeals (DOHA). The hearing convened as scheduled on June 24, 2025 . 
 
 
 
 
       
  
     
 
 
 
       
    
   
 
   
     
      
    
      
 
   
   
   
     
 
  
    
  
 
  
      
     
    
   
  
  
  
   
 
  
     
    
    
        
 
 
  
     
Department Counsel offered into evidence Government Exhibits (GX) 1-4 , which were 
admitted without objection. Applicant testified and the record was left open through July 
8, 2025, for either party to submit additional information. Applicant timely submitted 
Applicant Exhibit (AX) A, which was admitted without objection. DOHA received the 
hearing transcript (Tr.) on July 1, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
In her Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted all the SOR allegations. Her 
admissions are incorporated into my findings of fact. After a review of the pleadings and 
evidence submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact. 
Applicant is 48 years old. She completed an associate degree in 1996. She 
married in 2000, divorced in 2009, and she has twin sons from this relationship who are 
now of adult age. She has been consistently employed since 2007 and with her 
sponsoring employer since May 2021 . She is an aircraft mechanic and electrician and 
has not previously held a security clearance. (GX 1; Tr. 13-17) 
The SOR alleged that Applicant had nine accounts, totaling about $19,068 in 
delinquent debt. The largest debt involved the balance of $12,684 remaining on a 
vehicle loan after a voluntary repossession (SOR ¶ 1.i). The remaining debts include a 
personal loan of $1,932 (SOR ¶ 1.a), a delinquent credit card balance of $445 (SOR ¶ 
1.e), and $4,007 in various medical debt placed for collection (SOR ¶¶ 1.b- 1.d, 1.f-1.h). 
These debts are reflected in Applicant’s January 2023 and November 2023 credit 
reports. (GX 1-4; Tr. 23-63) 
Applicant began experiencing financial difficulties in 2009 with her divorce and 
the passing of her mother, who had provided her with a variety of assistance. Applicant 
did not receive financial support from her ex-husband and, as the expenses of caring for 
her children as a single parent increased, she described experiencing multiple 
delinquent accounts by 2011. Out of necessity, she purchased a used vehicle in 2015 
and had a monthly payment of about $400. Within two years, she purchased another 
vehicle that was less expensive . She allowed the first vehicle to be voluntarily 
repossessed (SOR 1.i). Although she was aware that she owed a balance on the 
vehicle, she claimed her financial circumstances did not allow for her to try to resolve 
the debt. (GX 1-4; Tr. 13-14, 23-30, 60-65) 
In her January 2023 SCA, Applicant disclosed she had a delinquent personal 
loan (SOR ¶ 1.a). She also disclosed a delinquent medical account relating to an 
ambulance service that she was disputing because she believed it should have been 
covered by her employer (SOR ¶ 1.b). She did not disclose the vehicle repossession 
but stated her intention to seek help resolving all her delinquent accounts. (GX 1) 
In her August 2023 response to interrogatories, Applicant acknowledged several 
delinquent debts, including the balance ow ed on the repossessed vehicle. She stated 
she had resolved one collection account with a $500 balance, but her remaining 
2 
 
 
 
 
      
 
     
     
    
 
     
     
  
      
   
 
  
 
     
 
  
 
     
   
  
   
  
 
    
   
  
   
   
 
   
    
 
    
 
     
   
   
     
      
     
   
  
 
 
accounts were unresolved. She further stated she hired a “credit repair consultant to 
clean up” her credit but did not provide any detail as to what services they provided or 
supporting documents. She included a pay stub from her current employer reflecting an 
annual salary of $52,208. She also provided a budget reflecting she had an estimated 
remainder of about $1,000 each month after expenditures . This budget did not include 
any payments on her delinquent accounts. (GX 2) 
At hearing, Applicant detailed that, in 2023, she initially paid the credit repair 
consultant $500 and then $50 per month for about six months to communicate with her 
creditors. She understood that letters were sent to creditors on her behalf but did not 
know whether any accounts were resolved through this process. She did not receive 
any financial counseling through this program or elsewhere. (Tr. 25-27, 47-48, 59-60) 
Applicant described that the medical debt listed in SOR ¶ 1.b involved an 
ambulance service she received in 2021 after she experienced health difficulties at 
work. She was told that her employer would pay for the service, but they never did. 
Although she claimed that she followed up with her employer, the debt remains 
unresolved. (Tr. 30-34) 
Beyond these efforts, Applicant has not resolved any of her delinquent accounts 
listed in the SOR. Instead, she described focusing her efforts on resolving accounts that 
had become delinquent more recently, including medical debts. However, she stated 
her intent to resolve the SOR debts in support of her security clearance application. (Tr. 
47-54) 
Applicant also described how her finances had improved over time. S he now 
earns an annual salary of over $60,000 and works a second job providing home health 
services where she earns about $235 per week. She described being owed about 
$50,000 in delinquent child support and recently began receiving monthly payments of 
$350 from her ex-husband. (Tr. 20-22, 54-58) 
Applicant believes she can maintain a budget but also admitted she has no funds 
for savings at the end of the month. She continues to provide about $500 to $1,000 per 
month to her two sons even though they no longer live with her. She recently helped 
one son resolve one of his delinquent loans. (Tr. 19-21) 
After the hearing, Applicant submitted documents showing that she recently 
entered a payment agreement with the creditor for the debt listed in SOR ¶ 1.a . 
Additionally, she produced an account summary from a medical provider showing timely 
payments for services she received in 2024 and 2025. She also sent a payment of $132 
in June 2025 for another medical account, but it was unclear if this payment related to a 
debt reflected in the SOR. Additionally, she provided receipts showing that she paid off 
two additional debts not listed in the SOR . She continues to send timely payments on 
two loans she took from her employer with a combined current balance of $1,671. (AX 
A) 
3 
 
 
 
 
    
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
   
 
   
 
 
     
    
   
  
 
 
 
 
    
   
    
   
 
 
  
 
 
Policies  
It is well established that no one has a right to a security clearance. As the 
Supreme Court held in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent standard 
indicates that security determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” 
484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988) 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 
2(a), the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as 
the “whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, 
reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in 
making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I 
have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the 
evidence contained in the record. Likewise, I have not drawn inferences grounded on 
mere speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation of potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
 
   
 
    
   
  
      
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
    
   
     
 
  
 
 
Analysis 
Guideline  F, Fi nancial Considerations  
The s
ecurity concern for financial considerations is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one ’s means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual ’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
The financial security concern is broader than the possibility that an individual 
might knowingly compromise classified information to raise money. It encompasses 
concerns about an individual’s self -control, judgment, and other qualities essential to 
protecting classified information. An individual who is financially irresponsible may also 
be irresponsible, unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding classified 
information. See ISCR Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012) 
I have considered the disqualifying conditions for financial considerations under 
AG ¶ 19 and the following are potentially applicable: 
(a) i
nability to satisfy  debts; and  
(c) a history of not  m eeting financial  obligations.  
Appl
icant’s admissions and the evidence reflect she experienced an extended 
history of delinquent debt and financial problems that are ongoing. The above 
disqualifying conditions are established. 
Once disqualifying conditions are established, an applicant has the burden of 
presenting evidence to refute, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the security concerns 
arising from those debts. See ISCR 20-03146 at 3 (App. Bd. June 6, 2022). 
I have considered the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20, and the following are 
potentially applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
und
er such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast  
doubt  on the individual ’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good  
judgment;  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
  
   
 
       
 
     
 
         
  
 
  
 
    
  
    
   
   
     
 
      
    
  
   
   
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely  
bey
ond the p erson’s  control  (e.g.,  loss of employment, a business  
downturn, unexpected medical  emergency,  a death, divorce or  separation,  
clear victimization by predatory lending practices,  or identity theft), and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
(c) the individual  has  received or is receiving financial counseling for the  
problem from  a legitimate and credible source, such as a non- profit credit  
counseling service,  and there are clear indications  that the problem is  
being resolved or is under control;  
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- f aith effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  and  
(e) the individual has  a r easonable basis to  dispute the legitimacy  of the 
past-due debt  which i s  the c ause of the problem  and provides  
documented proof to  substantiate the basis of the dispute or provides  
evidence of actions to resolve the issue.  
Appl
icant began experiencing financial difficulties in 2009 with her divorce and 
the passing of her mother . Although she remained fully employed, she continued to 
struggle for several years caring for her children without financial support from their 
father. These unique and unforeseen circumstances were largely beyond her control. 
Her financial situation is now improving. Her pay has increased, and she is working a 
second job for added income. She has resolved at least two accounts not reflected in 
the SOR. Mitigation under AG ¶¶ 20(a) and 20(b) must be considered. 
However, Applicant has maintained consistent employment for over a decade 
and has been aware that she had delinquent accounts since at least the repossession 
of her vehicle in about 2017. At hearing, she could not specify whether she had recently 
made payments on any of the delinquent debts listed in the SOR and admitted that she 
had not taken any recent action to resolve her largest debt, the balance remaining on 
her vehicle loan following repossession. 
Applicant claimed she was unable to pay her past debts because of her financial 
constraints and admitted to prioritizing her current financial health over past accounts. 
She also continues to provide anywhere from $500 to $1,000 per month in support to 
her two sons. This support has created additional financial stress for Applicant and 
hindered her ability to resolve her delinquent accounts. Her delinquent debts are recent 
and ongoing. Mitigation under AG ¶¶ 20(a) and 20(b) is not fully applicable. 
Additionally, for about six months in 2023, Applicant hired a consultant to “clean 
up” her credit but could not detail whether any accounts were resolved during this 
period. She never received any type of financial counseling through this service or 
elsewhere. AG ¶ 20(c) is not applicable. Although she entered into a payment 
agreement with the creditor for SOR ¶ 1.a after the hearing, this action alone does not 
6 
 
 
 
     
   
 
      
    
  
        
 
   
  
     
     
    
 
 
  
 
    
  
 
 
  
  
     
 
 
   
    
 
    
   
  
      
       
 
establish a good-faith effort to repay creditors or otherwise resolve debts. AG ¶ 20(d) is 
not applicable. 
Applicant also testified that she should not be responsible for the debt underlying 
SOR ¶ 1.b, the ambulance ride in 2021, as her employer promised to pay it. However, 
she did not establish that she contested the debt with the creditor or that she is working 
to resolve the debt with her employer. AG ¶ 20(e) is not applicable. 
There is insufficient evidence for a determination that Applicant’s financial 
problems will be resolved within a reasonable period. I am unable to find that she acted 
responsibly under the circumstances or that she made a good -faith effort to pay h er 
debts. H er financial issues continue to cast doubt on her current reliability, 
trustworthiness, and judgment. None of the mitigating conditions are fully applicable. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent  to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of  
rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation  
for the conduct; (8) the potential for  pressure, coercion, exploitation,  or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
the facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments 
under Guideline F in my whole-person analysis. 
Applicant financially struggled to provide for her children as a single parent for 
over a decade and her financial circumstances have improved over time. She believes 
she can maintain a monthly budget and provides ongoing support to her two adult -aged 
children. However, she has not yet established a sufficient track record of responsible 
action in addressing her past debts as reflected within the SOR. 
7 
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
  
  
 
    
   
  
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts as to 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. I conclude that Applicant did 
not mitigate the financial considerations security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  G
 uideline F:  AGAINST  APPL ICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a  –  1.i:  Against Applicant  
Conclusion  
In l
ight of all of the circumstances, it is not clearly consistent with the national 
interest to grant Applicant a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified 
information is denied. 
Bryan J. Olmos 
Administrative Judge 
8 