 
 
 
                                                              
                              
          
           
             
 
 
    
  
        
     
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
      
          
       
     
         
       
         
    
        
      
   
 
       
           
          
        
         
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00994 
) 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Aubrey De Angelis, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Dustin P. Cantwell, Attorney At Law, San Diego Law Groups 
03/05/2025 
Decision 
Lokey Anderson, Darlene D., Administrative Judge: 
On March 13, 2022; and October 5, 2023, Applicant submitted security clearance 
applications (e-QIPS). (Government Exhibits 2 and 3 .) On August 15, 2024 , the 
Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency Consolidated Adjudication Services 
(DCSA CAS) issued Applicant a Statement of Reasons (SOR), detailing security 
concerns under Guidelines H, Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse; and Guideline 
E, Personal Conduct. The action was taken under Executive Order 10865 (EO), 
Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; 
DoD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the National Security 
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or 
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective within the DoD after June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR on September 15, 2024 , and requested a hearing 
before an administrative judge. The case was assigned to me on November 13, 2024. 
The Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals issued a notice of hearing on January 23, 
2025, and the hearing was convened as scheduled on February 13, 2025 . The 
Government offered five exhibits, referred to as Government Exhibits 1 through 5, which 
1 
 
 
 
         
         
           
   
 
 
 
 
          
        
       
 
  
        
         
         
            
       
       
         
        
       
        
        
     
          
            
           
 
            
            
         
         
              
          
       
         
        
   
 
         
        
      
       
         
were admitted without objection. The Applicant offered seven exhibits, referred to as 
Applicant’s Exhibits A through G, which were admitted without objection. Applicant 
called three witnesses and testified on his own behalf. D OHA received the transcript of 
the hearing (Tr.) on February 24, 2025. 
Findings of Fact 
Applicant is 31 years old. He is recently married with no children. He has a 
Bachelor’s degree. He holds the position of Systems Engineer/Software Engineer. He 
is seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection with his employment. 
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse   
Guideline E  –  Personal Conduct  
Applicant was employed with defense contractor A, from January 2022 to August 
2023. He was initially hired to work as a Software Support Specialist 3. Applicant 
completed a security clearance questionnaire dated March 13, 2022 . (Government 
Exhibit 1.) Section 23 of the application, concerning Illegal drug use, asked, “In the last 
seven years have you illegally used any drugs or controlled substances? ” and, “while 
possessing a security clearance have you ever illegally used or otherwise been involved 
with a drug or controlled substance while possess ing a security clearance other than 
previously listed?” Applicant answered “Yes,” to both questions. By answering, “Yes,” 
to the question, Applicant was prompted to provide additional information. Applicant 
stated that he has used marijuana from about January 2010 to January 2021, an 
unknown number of times. He stated that he has used marijuana, experimentally, on 
rare occasions, an unknown number of times. He also indicated that he does not react 
well to marijuana as it causes him extreme anxiety depending on the amount. He 
stated that he d oes not plan to use it in the future. Applicant was granted a security 
clearance in June 2022.  (Tr. p. 72.) 
In May 2023, while still employed with defense contractor A, Applicant was 
assigned to work in a different position at the company, as a Business System Analyst. 
Applicant still possessed a security clearance , but contends that he was not required to 
access classified information. At this time, Applicant traveled on a weekend to Las 
Vegas to propose to his then fiancé . He consumed a gummy that he understood to 
contain CBD, THC, or a combination of both. His wife purchased th e gummies at a 
shop in Las Vegas. Applicant testified that although he did know for sure, he believed 
that the gumm ies contained THC because of the effects he experienced. (Tr. p. 61.) 
Applicant stated that he was not concerned about his use of the gummy because he 
was not working in a position that required access to classified information. 
In September 2023, Applicant started a new job working for defense contractor 
B, as a Systems Engineer II, where he is currently employed. On October 5, 2023, 
Applicant was required to complete a nother security clearance questionnaire, for 
purposes of upgrading his security clearance. (Government Exhibit 2.) This time, i n 
response to questions in Section 23, concerning the use of illegal drugs, which asked, 
2 
 
 
 
          
        
         
 
       
        
            
          
           
        
          
          
        
          
     
        
 
         
         
         
         
         
       
             
          
      
 
           
        
        
   
   
       
            
              
              
        
              
         
        
          
          
      
         
         
         
 
“In the last seven years have you illegally used any drugs or controlled substances ”, the 
Applicant answered, “NO.” This was a false answer. Applicant failed to list his 
marijuana use. 
On December 12, 2023, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator 
for the Department of Defense about his illegal drug use. When Applicant was asked 
whether he had used any illegal drugs in the last seven years? Applicant said, “NO”. 
Applicant stated that the reason he denied his drug use was b ecause he knew that he 
had to stay consistent with what he put on his second security clearance application. 
The investigator then confronted the Applicant with information from the last 
investigation which reflected that Applicant’s last use of marijuana had been in January 
2021. Applicant responded by stating that h e did not know why the last investigation 
reflected January 2021, as his last use of any illegal drug because his last use of 
marijuana was more than seven years ago. The next day Applicant met with the 
investigator and among other things he admitted that his last illegal drug use occurred in 
May 2023.  (Government Exhibit 3.) 
Applicant stated that he did not have malicious intent to deceive the Government 
when he denied his illegal drug use on the October 5, 2023 , security clearance 
questionnaire; during his interview with the i nvestigator on December 12, 2023; and 
when he removed the pre-populated information about his drug use from his prior 
security clearance application , that showed his marijuana usage from 2010 to 2021. 
Applicant also stated that he was overthinking and felt that his earlier reported usage 
could be interpreted in a way that does not accurately represent his usage. He stated 
that he should have brought the information to the investigator ’s attention instead of 
removing the information altogether. 
Concerning his use of the gummy in May 2023, Applicant stated that he was not 
sure if the gummy he ate contained marijuana. H e realizes that, in any event, he should 
have been more transparent regarding his usage, instead of denying the usage 
altogether. 
Applicant stated that he is not a pot smoker. He does not consider himself a 
pothead or a weed smoker, and he does not want to be affiliated with marijuana. (Tr. p. 
58.) He testified that he first started using marijuana in high school , and then used it 
during his first year of college. He stated that he used it off and on and could not give a 
ballpark estimate of the number of times he used it. (Tr. p. 66.) He stated that after 
college he has used it one or two times with his college friend Brett, who was his best 
man in his wedding on September 13, 2024. His best friend still uses marijuana . 
Applicant stated that he has not seen his best friend for a few months, since he does 
not go to his house anymore due to Applicant’s security clearance. Applicant stated 
that they usually go on double dates. (Tr. pp. 5 5-57.) Applicant’s best friend was 
interviewed by the DoD investigator concerning Applicant’s drug use. His best friend 
told the investigator that Applicant had smoked marijuana twice in the last two years, 
between January 2022 and January 2024. Applicant denied th is use stating that he did 
not smoke marijuana anytime while he possessed a security clearance. (Tr. pp. 56-57.) 
3 
 
 
 
       
              
  
 
           
                  
           
          
             
   
 
      
      
      
           
       
 
       
       
         
         
            
     
 
          
             
       
     
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Besides the social aspect of his marijuana use with his friend Brett, Applicant 
stated that there were also times he has used marijuana to help him sleep. On those 
occasions he was by himself and he used it before going to bed.  (Tr. p. 67.) 
Applicant described a particular method he uses to smoke marijuana, which is to 
vaporize it. To do this, he breaks a light bulb, and cleans it out. He then puts the 
marijuana in the light bulb and puts a flame under the light bulb. He heats up the 
marijuana in the light bulb to generate the vapor and breathes in the vapor from the light 
bulb. (Tr. pp. 54-55.) It seems unusual for someone who claims to use marijuana so 
infrequently to have such an intricate process of using it. 
A letter of recommendation from Applicant’s current program manager who 
manages Applicant’s work performance attested to Applicant’s strong work ethic, 
professionalism, diligence, accountability, and dedication to the job. Applicant is 
described as a top performer. He “exceeded expectations” in 2024, and he has good 
character.  H e recommends Applicant for a security clearance. (Applicant’s Exhibit A.) 
Applicant’s previous supervisor at defense contractor A, testified and submitted a 
written declaration on Applicant ’s behalf . He stated that Applicant is a highly 
competent, good natured, trusted employee who was respected by all members of his 
team as well as others who worked with him. Applicant exceeded the expectations set 
for him and was a pleasure to work with. He believes that Applicant is a prime 
candidate for a security clearance. (Applicant’s Exhibit E, and Tr. pp. 23-32.) 
Applicant’s father testified and submitted a written declaration on Applicant’s 
behalf. He stated that his son is a loyal, trustworthy, and honest individual. He has 
never had any concerns about his son’s honesty and integrity. He believes that 
Applicant is worthy of a security clearance. (Applicant’s Exhibit C, Tr. pp. 79-89.) 
Applicant’s wife  testified  and  submitted  a  written  declaration  on  Applicant’s  
behalf.  She  stated  that in May  2023,  she  and  her husband  went to a  music event in  Las  
Vegas  and  were trying  to  relax.  They  were  both  experiencing  pain  and  discomfort  from  
being  on  their  feet  all  day and  their  backs  were  hurting.  She  purchased  what she  
thought  to  be  CBD gummies from  a  shop  in  Las  Vegas.   She  was confident that  the  
gummy’s  did not contain THC.  She  stated  that her husband  was worried  that the  
gummies  may  have  contained  THC, and  despite  her  reassurances  that  they  did  not,  he  
remained  anxious about it.  Applicant’s wife  testified  that she  has since  looked  into  
whether the  gummy’s contained  THC,  and  she  discovered  that they do  not.   She  also  
said that her husband  knew that he  had  made  a  mistake  by  denying  any  marijuana  use  
during  his interview with  the  DoD investigator.   (Applicant’s Exhibit  B, and  Tr. pp. 90 -
101.)          
4 
 
 
 
       
 
      
        
       
         
   
 
          
    
           
     
      
        
            
 
 
      
    
        
           
        
 
 
       
       
       
     
            
  
 
           
   
  
              
      
       
        
  
 
          
               
       
   
 
 
 
Policies 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The 
administrative judge’s over arching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and 
commonsense decision. The entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number o f 
variables known as the whole -person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I 
have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical and based on the 
evidence contained in the record. Likewise, I have avoided drawing inferences 
grounded on mere speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, 
or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel .” The 
applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable clearance 
decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The g overnment 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to 
potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
 
 
         
         
       
       
     
    
        
      
       
  
 
       
 
 
 
 
 
        
   
 
 
 
 
Analysis 
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Drug Involvement and 
Substance Misuse is set forth at AG ¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non -prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual's reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior 
may lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person's ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any "controlled substance" 
as defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term 
adopted in this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
The guideline at AG ¶ 25 contains three conditions that could raise a security 
concern and may be disqualifying: 
(a) any substance  misuse (see above  definition);    
(c)  illegal possession  of a  controlled  substance, including  cultivation,  
processing, manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession  of  
drug paraphernalia; and   
(f)  any illegal drug  use  while granted  access to  classified  information  or  
holding a sensitive position.  
The guideline at AG ¶ 26 contains conditions that could mitigate security 
concerns. None of the conditions are applicable: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or happened  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur or does  not cast  doubt  
on  the  individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  judgment;  
and  
(b) the  individual acknowledges his or  her drug  involvement and  
substance  misuse, provides evidence  of actions taken  to  overcome  this  
problem, and  has established  a  pattern  of abstinence,  including,  but  not  
limited to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts;   
(2) changing  or avoiding  the  environment where drugs were  
used; and   
6 
 
 
 
 
 
             
        
          
           
          
          
     
    
             
       
        
  
 
    
     
        
         
            
     
          
        
          
         
      
             
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
(3) providing  a  signed  statement of intent to  abstain  from  all  
drug  involvement and substance  misuse,  acknowledging  that  
any future  involvement or misuse  is grounds for revocation  
of national security eligibility.  
None of the mitigating fac tors are applicable. Applicant used marijuana from 
January 2010 to January 2021, and then in May 2023, at times, while possessing a 
security clearance and while in a sensitive position. He stated in his March 2022 e-QIP 
that he had no intentions of ever using marijuana again. Then in May 2023, Applicant 
used what he thought was a gummy containing marijuana . Any drug use after a prior 
promise to the contrary casts doubts on his current declaration of intent to abstain from 
future drug use. What this means is that Applicant’s credibility is in question. Even 
more troubling is the fact that Applicant’s best friend, who was his best man in his 
wedding in September 2024, and with whom he regularly goes on double dates , was 
interviewed by the DoD investigator concerning Applicant’s illegal drug use. His best 
friend told the investigator that Applicant had used marijuana at least twice in the last 
two years.  Applicant denied this use. 
The evidence is mixed, conflicting, and raises questions about Applicant’s 
credibility. It is not clear how often Applicant has actually used marijuana, when 
Applicant actually last used marijuana , or what his true intentions are concerning his 
future use of marijuana . Applicant has given a number of explanations for his 
falsifications, and although he claims that he had no intentions to be deceitful, he had 
been. It is apparent that Applicant has not been completely truthful with the 
Government about his marijuana use. It comes down to a very simple rule that he must 
follow, which he failed to do. Applicant received regular annual security briefings since 
he began working in the defense industry. He knew or should have known that 
marijuana use of any sort is clearly prohibited under Federal law, and applies to 
individuals, like himself, who possess a security clearance, who are in a sensitive 
position, and who work for the defense industry. Guideline H has not been mitigated. 
Guideline E- Personal Conduct  
The security concern for Personal Conduct is set out in AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving  questionable judgment, lack of candor,  dishonesty,  or  
unwillingness to  comply with  rules and  regulations can  raise  questions  
about an  individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and  ability to  protect  
classified  or sensitive  information.   Of  special interest is  any  failure to  
cooperate  or provide  truthful and  candid answers during  national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes.  
7 
 
 
 
    
     
 
 
 
        
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 16. Two are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) deliberate  omission, concealment,  or falsification  of relevant facts from  
any personnel  security questionnaire, personal  history  statement,  or  
similar form  used  to  conduct investigations, determine  employment  
qualifications,  award  benefits  or  status,  determine  national  security  
eligibility or trustworthiness, or award  fiduciary responsibilities; and    
(b) deliberately providing  false or misleading  information; or concealing  or  
omitting  information,  concerning  relevant facts  to  an  employer, 
investigator,  security  official, competent  medical  or  mental health  
professional involved  in  making  a  recommendation  relevant to  a  national  
security eligibility determination, or other official government  
representative.  
The guideline at AG ¶ 17 contains conditions that could mitigate security 
concerns. 
(a) the  individual made  prompt, good  faith  efforts to  correct  the  omission,  
concealment,  or falsification  before being confronted with the facts;  
(b) the  refusal or  failure to  cooperate,  omission, or  concealment was  
cause  or significantly contributed  to  by  advice  of  legal counsel or  a  person  
with  professional responsibilities for advising  or instructing  the  individual  
specifically concerning  security processes.  Upon  being  made  aware of 
the  requirement to  cooperate  or provide  the  information,  the  individual  
cooperated fully and truthfully;  
(c)  the  offense  is so  minor, or so  much  time  has passed, or the  behavior is 
so  infrequent, or it happened  under such  unique  circumstances that it is 
unlikely to  recur and   does  not cast   doubt  on  the  individual’s  reliability,  
trustworthiness, or good judgment; and  
(d) the  individual has acknowledged  the  behavior and  obtained  counseling  
to  change  the  behavior or taken  other positive steps to  alleviate  the  
stressors, circumstances, or  factors that  contributed  to  untrustworthy, 
unreliable, or other inappropriate  behavior, and  such  behavior is unlikely   
to recur.   
Applicant provided  false information  about  his  illegal drug  use  on  his October 5,  
2023,  security clearance  application.  In  fact, he  removed  the  marijuana  use  that pre-
populated  into  this application  from  this security clearance  application. At the  time  he  
completed  this  application, he  held  a  security clearance.   There is  no  excuse  for h is  
misconduct.   In  addition, during  his interview with  the  investigator,  to  be  consistent  with  
what he  put on  the  questionnaire, he  again denied  any illegal drug  use.   Only when  he 
was confronted  with  the  information  by  the  investigator  did  he  finally admit his  illegal  
8 
 
 
 
         
          
          
          
      
          
           
      
      
           
 
       
           
          
       
        
           
        
    
         
      
   
     
 
          
      
         
    
 
 
       
   
  
 
       
 
           
        
drug use. There was no prompt good -faith effort to correct the omission. This conduct 
demonstrates a lack of credibility on Applicant’s part, and gives the Government no 
confidence that he will voluntarily comply with required rules and regulations imposed in 
order to properly protect classified information. To be eligible for access to classified 
information an individual must demonstrate sufficient maturity and responsibility, often 
requiring them to self -report their misconduct. Applicant’s failure to disclose his 
marijuana use on his October 5, 2023, security clearance application, and initially to the 
investigator during his interview with DoD , falls short of meeting the eligibility 
requirements for access to classified information, and clearly demonstrates dishonesty, 
unreliability, and untrustworthiness that is not tolerated by the Defense Department. 
Considered in totality, Applicant’s conduct precludes a finding of good judgment, 
reliability, and/or the ability to abide by rules and regulations. To be entrusted with the 
privilege of holding a security clearance, applicants are expected to abide by all laws, 
regulations and policies that apply to them. Applicant has used marijuana while 
possessing a security clearance, and while working for a defense contractor, and has 
disregarded Federal law, knowing that the use of any illegal drug is against DoD policy . 
Applicant stated that he is extremely remorseful and that he should have done things 
differently. Under the particular facts of this case, Applicant does not show the requisite 
character or judgment of someone who has the maturity, integrity, and reliability 
necessary to access classified information. At this time, Applicant does not meet the 
eligibility qualifications for a security clearance. 
Whole-Person  Concept  
Under the whole -person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of  
rehabilitation  and  other permanent  behavioral changes;  (7) the  motivation  
for the  conduct;  (8) the  potential  for pressure, coercion,  exploitation, or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood  of continuation  or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2( c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a security 
clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guidelines H and E in my whole -person analysis. An individual who holds a security 
clearance is expected to comply with the law at all times. A pplicant has not 
9 
 
 
 
         
        
        
        
           
           
 
         
         
          
     
 
 
 
      
  
 
    
 
            
          
   
 
                      
 
 
 
             
      
   
                                             
 
 
  
 
 
demonstrated th e level of maturity needed for access to classified information. He 
understands the requirements associated with holding a security clearance and knows 
that illegal drug use is not tolerated . At this time, Applicant is not an individual in whom 
the Government can be confident that he will always follow rules and regulations and do 
the right thing, even when no one is looking. Applicant does not meet the qualifications 
for a security clearance. 
Overall, the record eviden ce leaves me with questions and doubts as to 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. For all these reasons, I 
conclude Applicant failed to mitigate the Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse, and 
Personal Conduct security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by ¶ E3.1.25 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  H:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a  and 1.b.  Against Applicant 
Paragraph  2, Guideline  E:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  2.a  through  2.c.   Against Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue Applicant’s eligibility for 
a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Darlene Lokey Anderson 
Administrative Judge 
10 