 
 
 
 
 
          
      
 
                   
          
           
             
 
 
 
    
  
      
   
   
 
 
 
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
     
      
  
   
    
  
    
  
______________ 
___________
___ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
"'L 09i~ .t!J~ 0 
"' ;:. "tr 
00 
"" 
In the mat
ter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-01332 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Sakeena Farhath, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Daniel P. Meyer, Esq. (prehearing brief only) 
08/06/2025 
Decision 
FOREMAN, LeRoy F., Administrative Judge: 
This case involves security concerns raised under Guideline H (Drug Involvement 
and Substance Misuse). Clearance is denied. 
Statement of the Case 
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on May 11, 2023. On 
September 26, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) sent 
her a Statement of Reasons (SOR) alleging security concerns under Guideline H. The 
DCSA acted under Executive Order ( Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified 
Information within Industry (February 20, 19 60), as amended ; Department of Defense 
(DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) 
promulgated in Security Executive Agent Directive 4, National Security Adjudicative 
Guidelines (December 10, 2016), which became effective on June 8, 2017. 
1 
 
 
 
  
   
  
    
  
   
  
 
     
  
 
 
 
     
   
 
      
     
    
  
 
   
  
     
  
     
  
   
 
     
    
     
   
   
    
     
   
   
  
 
    
    
  
   
        
 
Applicant answered the SOR on November 12, 2024, and requested a hearing 
before an administrative judge. Department Counsel was ready to proceed on December 
23, 2024. The case was assigned to me on May 7, 2025. On May 13, 2025, the Defense 
Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) notified Applicant that the hearing was scheduled 
to be conducted by video teleconference on June 17, 2025. I convened the hearing as 
scheduled. Government Exhibits (GX) 1 through 3 were admitted in evidence without 
objection. 
Applicant submitted a written brief (Hearing Exhibit I), testified, and submitted 
Applicant’s Exhibits (AX) A through F , which were admitted without objection. DOHA 
received the transcript on July 1, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, she admitted all the allegations in the SOR, with 
explanations. Her admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact. 
Applicant is a 30-year-old instructional designer and trainer employed by a defense 
contractor since August 2021. She graduated from high school in April 2013. She married 
in May 2021 and has no children. She received a bachelor’s degree in health education 
on a date not reflected in the record. (Tr. 14) 
Applicant served in the Air National Guard as a munitions systems technician from 
December 2016 to April 2022 and attained the rank of senior airman (pay grade E-4). She 
held a security clearance while on active duty. In June 2019, she received the Air Force 
Achievement Medal for service as a maintenance crew member at an Air Force Base in 
Korea. In April 2021, she received a second Air Force Achievement Medal for service in 
a quick reaction force in response to the January 2021 attack on the U.S. Capitol. She 
underwent a random urinalysis in May 2021 and tested positive for marijuana. Based on 
the urinalysis results, she received a general discharge in April 2022. 
When Applicant submitted her SCA in May 2023, she stated that she used 
marijuana only once in April 2021. (GX 1 at 35). When she was interviewed by a security 
investigator in September 2023, she admitted that she used marijuana once while she 
was in high school (between August 2009 and May 2013), and that she and her spouse 
smoked marijuana at the funeral of a family member in April 2021. She also admitted that 
she smoked marijuana with her husband a “few times” after she was discharged from the 
Air National Guard, because she was no longer constrained by her military status and the 
requirements for holding a security clearance. She told the investigator that she stopped 
using marijuana in “approximately Summer/Fall 2022,” when she began working for her 
current employer. (GX 3 at 3) 
In response to DOHA interrogatories in September 2024, Applicant admitted using 
marijuana in June 2011 and about once a month until May 2022. (GX 3 at 8) She stated 
that she learned that marijuana use was illegal under federal law in August 2022, when 
she received an employee handbook, and she stopped using it after reviewing the 
handbook and learning that it was illegal. (GX 3 at 9) At the hearing, she testified that the 
date on which stopped using marijuana was in 2021 and not 2022, because she started 
2 
 
 
 
    
    
 
      
   
  
    
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
 
   
  
     
   
      
  
    
 
    
   
    
  
     
    
   
     
     
 
 
      
   
  
     
    
  
      
 
 
   
   
    
   
working for her current employer in 2021 and stopped using it when she began her 
employment in August 2021. (Tr. 25-28) 
At the hearing, Applicant testified that her use of marijuana that was detected by 
the urinalysis occurred when she and her husband were attending a funeral that was 
emotionally difficult. She also was recovering from the stress of her duty during the attack 
on the U.S. Capitol, during which she was unable to see her family or have access to her 
“support system.” She testified, “I never thought I would be in a position to have to kind 
of go against my community.” (Tr. 34) 
At the hearing, Applicant also testified that she was not sure if marijuana use was 
legal in her state of residence when she used it. (Tr. 31) I have taken administrative notice 
that recreational use of marijuana was not legalized in her state of residence until July 
2023. (Hearing Exhibit 1) 
Applicant testified that she no longer associates with the college friends with whom 
she used marijuana. Her husband is now employed by a federal contractor and no longer 
uses marijuana. (Tr. 29) In January 2024, she received a Spotlight Achievement Award 
from her current employer for introducing in novative learning and training courses. On 
November 11, 2024, she signed a statement of intent to not use any illegal drugs, 
including marijuana, and agreed that any violation will be grounds for automatic 
revocation of her security clearance. (AX E) 
During the administrative process that led to Applicant’s discharge from the Air 
National Guard, one senior airman and eleven noncommissioned officers ranging in rank 
from technical sergeant to command master sergeant submit ted letters attesting to her 
outstanding performance of duty, positive attitude, technical skills, and exceptional 
potential for future service. She submitted the same letters at the hearing. (AX D 1 -12) 
One of the statements submitted refers to a “single lapse of judgement.” (AX D at 4) The 
other eleven letters simply recite, “I am aware of what [Applicant] is accused of doing.” 
(AX D 1-3 and 5-12) The timing of these statements indicates that the declarants believed 
that Applicant had used marijuana only one time. 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
3 
 
 
 
     
    
 
     
  
  
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
    
   
  
 
   
   
 
    
   
  
   
 
   
   
  
 
   
       
 
 
 
 
  
decision. An a dministrative judge must consider all available and reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865 
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant 
has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have 
established for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan at 531. Substantial 
evidence is “such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to 
support a conclusion in light of all the contrary evidence in the same record.” See I SCR 
Case No. 17- 04166 at 3 (App. Bd. Mar. 21, 2019) . It is “less than the weight of the 
evidence, and the possibility of drawing two inconsistent conclusions from the evidence 
does not prevent [a Judge’s] finding from being supported by substantial evidence.” 
Consolo v. Federal Maritime Comm’n, 383 U.S. 607, 620 (1966). “Substantial evidence” 
is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. Washington Metro. Area 
Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines presume a nexus or 
rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria listed therein and 
an applicant’s security suitability. ISCR Case No. 15-01253 at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 20, 2016).  
Once the  G overnment establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial  
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive  ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of  proving a mitigating condition,  
and the burden of disproving it  never shifts to the  Government.  See  ISCR Case No.  02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep.  22,  2005).   
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent  
with the national interest to grant or continue  his security clearance.”  ISCR Case No.  01-
20700 at  3 (App. Bd.  Dec. 19, 2002).  “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  Egan  at 531.   
4 
 
 
 
 
 
   
     
   
     
   
    
 
 
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
      
 
  
   
 
  
   
  
   
 
 
    
 
  
   
 
 
Analysis  
Guideline  H (Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse)  
The SOR ¶ 1.a alleges that Applicant used marijuana with varying frequency from 
about 2011 to at least August 2022 (SOR ¶ 1.a), that she used marijuana at least once in 
April 2021, while employed in a sensitive position, i.e., one requiring a security clearance 
(SOR ¶ 1.b) , and that she tested positive for marijuana during a routine urinalysis and 
was subsequently discharged from the National Guard (SOR ¶ 1.c). The concern under 
this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any “controlled substance” as 
defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in 
this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
On October 25, 2014, the Director of National Intelligence (the Security  Executive  
Agent (SecEA))  issued DNI Memorandum ES 2014-00674, “Adherence to Federal  Laws  
Prohibiting M arijuana Use,” which states:  
[C]hanges to state laws and the laws of the District of Columbia pertaining 
to marijuana use do not alter the existing National Security Adjudicative 
Guidelines . . . . An individual’s disregard of federal law pertaining to the 
use, sale, or manufacture of marijuana remains adjudicatively relevant in 
national security determinations. As always, adjudicative authorities are 
expected to evaluate claimed or developed use of, or involvement with, 
marijuana using the current adjudicative criteria. The adjudicative authority 
must determine if the use of, or involvement with, marijuana raises 
questions about the individual’s judgment, reliability, trustworthiness, and 
willingness to comply with law, rules, and regulations, including federal 
laws, when making eligib ility decisions of persons proposed for, or 
occupying, sensitive national security positions. 
On December 21, 2021, the SecEA promulgated clarifying guidance concerning 
marijuana-related issues in security clearance adjudications. It states in pertinent part: 
[Federal] agencies are instructed that prior recreational marijuana use by 
an individual may be relevant to adjudications but not determinative. The 
SecEA has provided direction in [the adjudicative guidelines] to agencies 
that requires them to use a “whol e-person concept.” This requires 
adjudicators to carefully weigh a number of variables in an individual’s life 
to determine whether that individual’s behavior raises a security concern, if 
5 
 
 
 
   
 
    
  
    
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
    
    
          
 
 
   
 
   
   
  
 
     
at all, and whether that concern has been mitigated such that the individual 
may now receive a favorable adjudicative determination. Relevant 
mitigations include, but are not limited to, frequency of use and whether the 
individual can demonstrate that future use is unlikely to recur, including by 
signing an attestation or other such appropriate mitigation. 
Applicant’s admissions and the evidence submitted at the hearing establish the 
following disqualifying conditions under this guideline: 
AG  ¶ 25(a): any  substance misuse (see above definition);  
A
G ¶  26(b): t esting positive for an illegal  drug ;  
AG ¶  25(c): i llegal possession of  a co ntrolled substance, including cultivation,  
processing,  manufacture, purchase, sale, or distribution; or  possession of  drug  
paraphernalia;  and  
AG ¶ 25(f):  any illegal  drug use while granted access  to classified information or  
holding a sensitive position.  
The fol
lowing mitigating conditions are potentially applicable: 
AG ¶ 26(a): the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or  
happen
ed under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or does not  
cast doubt  on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  
judgment;  and  
AG ¶ 26(b):  the individual  ac knowledges his  or her drug involvement  and  
substance misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this  
problem, and has established a p  attern of abstinence,  including, but  not  
limited to:  (1) disassociation from drug- using associates and contacts;  (2) 
changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were used; and  (3) 
providing a signed statement  of intent to abstain from  all drug involvement  
and substance misuse,  acknowledging that any future involvement or  
misuse is  grounds for revocation of national security eligibility.  
Applicant testified that she was not sure whether recreational use of marijuana was 
legal
 in the jurisdiction where she resided when she used it. Her testimony indicates that 
the legal status of marijuana use in her state of residence was not a factor in her decision 
to use it. 
The first prong of AG ¶ 26(a) (happened so long ago) focuses on whether the drug 
involvement was recent. There are no bright line rules for determining when conduct is 
recent. The determination must be based on a careful evaluation of the totality of the 
evidence. If the evidence shows a significant period of time has passed without any 
evidence of misconduct, then an administrative judge must determine whether that period 
of time demonstrates changed circumstances or conduct sufficient to warrant a finding of 
reform or rehabilitation. ISCR Case No. 02-24452 at 6 (App. Bd. Aug. 4, 2004). 
6 
 
 
 
     
   
   
     
 
  
  
 
     
     
   
  
   
      
 
    
   
      
    
      
   
 
     
       
   
  
    
 
 
 
   
  
   
   
   
 
 
Applicant’s last use of marijuana was at least three years ago, which is a 
“significant period of time.” When she submitted her SCA in May 2023, she answered the 
question about the nature, frequency, and number of times used by stating that it was 
“recreational, once, once,” (repetition in original document) in April 2021. When she was 
questioned by a security investigator in September 2023, she stated that she smoked 
marijuana with her husband a “few times.” In her responses to DOHA interrogatories in 
September 2024, she stated that she used marijuana about once a month until May 2022. 
When she was questioned at the hearing about her claim in her May 2023 SCA that she 
used it only once, she testified that she thought she had disclosed her subsequent use. 
(Tr. 21) At the hearing, she testified that she was confused about the year of her last use 
and mistakenly said in her interrogatory responses that it was in 2022, until she realized 
that it was in 2021, when she began working for her current employer. Her inconsistent 
and contradictory statements about the frequency and recency of her marijuana use 
cause me to have doubts about the credibility of her testimony and leave me unconvinced 
that the reform and rehabilitation contemplated by AG ¶ 26(a) is established. 
Applicant’s falsification of the questions in the SCA about drug use was not alleged 
in the SOR. Therefore, I have considered her false statement that she used marijuana 
only once for the limited purposes of evaluating her credibility; evaluating her evidence of 
extenuation, mitigation, or changed circumstances; to consider whether she has 
demonstrated successful rehabilitation; and as a part of my whole person analysis. See 
ISCR Case No. 03-20327 at 4 (App. Bd. Oct. 26, 2006). 
AG ¶ 26(b) is partially established. Applicant has submitted the statement of intent 
provided for in AG ¶ 26(b)(3), but she but has not credibly acknowledged the extent or 
duration of her drug involvement. She has not disassociated from her husband, although 
she claims that he also has terminated his drug involvement. Her husband did not testify 
at the hearing, and there is no documentary evidence in the record reflecting that he has 
terminated his drug involvement. 
Whole-Person  Analysis  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant a security 
clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. An administrative judge must evaluate 
an applicant’s security eligibility by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct and 
all the relevant circumstances. An administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.   
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
     
 
 
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
I have incorporated my comments under Guideline  H  in my  whole-person analysis  
and applied the adjudicative factors in AG ¶ 2(d).  Although Applicant  has submitted some  
mitigating evidence, it is not sufficient to overcome the concerns raised by her drug  
involvement.  “Once a concern arises regarding an applicant’s security clearance  
eligibility, there is  a strong presumption against the grant or  maintenance of  a security  
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 09- 01652 at  3 (App. Bd. Aug.  8, 2011),  citing Dorfmont v.  
Brown, 913 F.2d 1399, 1401 (9
th  Cir. 1990),  cert. denied,  499 U.S. 905 (1991).  Applicant  
has not  overcome this presumption.  After  weighing the disqualifying and mitigating  
conditions under Guideline H, and evaluating all the evidence in the context of the whole  
person, I conclude Applicant  has  not  mitigated the security concerns raised by  her drug 
involvement.  
For
mal Findings  
I make the following formal findings on the allegations in the SOR: 
Paragraph 1 (D rug Involvement  and Substance Misuse): AGAINST  AP PLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a-1.c:      Against Applicant  
Conclusion  
I conc
lude that it is not clearly consistent with the national security interests of the 
United States to grant Applicant eligibility for access to classified information. Clearance 
is denied. 
LeRoy F. Foreman 
Administrative Judge 
8 