 
 
  
 
  
       DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
   DEFENSE  OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS      
           
             
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
     
  
 
 
  
    
  
  
 
  
   
      
  
  
   
 
 
    
   
___________ 
___________ 
In the matter of:  )  
 )  
               )   ISCR Case No. 24-01118  
  )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance   )  
A
ppearances  
For Government: Andrew Henderson, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
05/07/2025 
Decision  
HARVEY, Mark, Administrative Judge: 
Guideline F (financial considerations) security concerns are mitigated; however, 
Guideline B (foreign influence) security concerns are not mitigated. Eligibility for access 
to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On August 1, 2023, Applicant completed an Electronic Questionnaires for 
Investigations Processing or security clearance application (SCA). (Government Exhibit 
(GE) 1) On October 2, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
(DCSA) issued a statement of reasons (SOR) to Applicant under Executive Order (Exec. 
Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960); 
Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security 
Clearance Review Program (Directive) (January 2, 1992), as amended; and Security 
Executive Agent Directive 4, establishing in Appendix A, the National Security 
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or 
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AGs), effective June 8, 2017. (Hearing Exhibit (HE) 
2) 
The SOR detailed reasons why the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals 
(DOHA) did not find under the Directive that it is clearly consistent with the interests of 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
      
     
    
    
    
      
 
   
     
    
   
  
    
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
     
      
  
 
    
      
     
  
      
national security to grant or continue a security clearance for Applicant and recommended 
referral to an administrative judge to determine whether a clearance should be granted, 
continued, denied, or revoked. Specifically, the SOR set forth security concerns arising 
under Guidelines F and B. (HE 2) On November 7, 2024, Applicant provided his response 
to the SOR. (HE 3) On December 2, 202 4, Department Counsel was ready to proceed. 
On December 11, 2024, the case was assigned to me. On December 30, 2024, DOHA 
issued a notice setting the hearing for February 3, 2025. (HE 1) On February 3, 2025, 
DOHA issued an amended notice s cheduling the hearing for February 21, 2025. The 
hearing was held as scheduled. 
During the hearing, Department Counsel offered 12 exhibits into evidence, and 
Applicant offered one exhibit into evidence. (Tr. 11, 14-17; GE 1-GE 12; Applicant Exhibit 
(AE) A (11 pages)) All proffered exhibits were admitted into evidence. (Tr. 14-15) On 
March 3, 2025, DOHA received a copy of the transcript. Applicant provided one post-
personal appearance exhibit, which was admitted into evidence without objection. (AE B) 
The record closed on March 20, 2025. (Tr. 50, 54)     
Legal Issue  
Department Counsel requested administrative notice concerning the Republic of  
Iraq  (Iraq). (Tr.  15; HE 5) Applicant did not  object,  and I granted Department Counsel’s  
motion. (Tr. 15) Administrative or  official  notice is the appropriate type of notice used for  
administrative proceedings.  See  ISCR Case No.  16-02522 at 2 -3 (App. Bd. July 12,  
2017); ISCR Case No. 05-11292 at  4 n. 1 (App.  Bd. Apr. 12, 2007); ISCR Case No. 02-
24875 at  2 (App.  Bd.  Oct. 12, 2006) (citing ISCR Case No.  02-18668 at 3 (App. Bd. Feb.  
10, 2004)  and McLeod v. Immigration and Naturalization Service, 802 F.2d 89,  93 n.  4  
(3d Cir. 1986)). Usually, administrative notice at  ISCR proceedings is accorded to facts  
that are either well known or from government reports.  See  Stein,  Administrative Law, 
Section 25.01 (Bender & Co. 2006) (listing fifteen types of facts for administrative notice).  
The government’s administrative notice document is substantially quoted in the Iraq  
section with minor changes  and deletion of the substantial list of  human rights i ssues, 
infra.  Footnotes  and references have been omitted.  
Some details were excluded to protect Applicant’s right to privacy. Specific 
information is available in the cited exhibits and transcript. 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, 1.c, 
and 2.a through 2.d. He did not deny any of the SOR allegations. He also provided 
mitigating information. His admissions are accepted as findings of fact. 
Applicant is a 48 -year-old commercial truckdriver who wishes to resume his 
employment as linguist or interpreter. (Tr. 6, 8, 17, 47) In 1999, he graduated from high 
school, and in 2006, he received a bachelor’s degree. (Tr. 6) His majors in college were 
education and the future. (Tr. 6) He received his high school diploma and bachelor ’s 
degree in Iraq. (Tr. 6) In 2018, he married, and his child is six years old. (Tr. 7; GE 1) His 
2 
 
 
  
   
     
 
 
     
    
   
   
  
 
  
 
     
       
       
    
        
       
      
   
   
  
 
 
   
   
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
      
  
 
     
    
spouse is a U.S. citizen, and she is employed as a teacher. (Tr. 43 ; GE 1 ) His spouse 
and child live in the United States. He served in the Iraqi military for about four months . 
(Tr. 7) He did not serve in the U.S. military. (GE 1) 
Financial Considerations  
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges and Applicant admitted he has a charged-off credit-card account 
owed to a bank for $14,121. (Tr. 38; SOR response) On November 3, 2024, he said he 
“reached out” to the creditor; however, he did not receive an answer. The creditor said 
the account was closed. (SOR response) At his hearing, he said the creditor was unable 
to locate information about the debt. (Tr. 42) The creditor told him not to worry about the 
debt, and he would receive notification if the creditor elected to pursue collection of the 
debt. (Tr. 43) 
SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.c allege Applicant admitted that he has two charged-off credit-
card accounts owed to the same bank for $9,935 and for $5,460, respectively. (Tr. 38; 
SOR response) The creditor reduced the amounts of the debts by 50 percent in a 
settlement agreement. (Tr. 45- 46) From September 2023 to May 2024 , Applicant made 
about 15 $219 payments to address the SOR ¶ 1.b account. (Tr. 41-42; SOR response) 
As of December 26, 2024, he owed the SOR ¶ 1.b creditor $4,512. (AE A) In September 
and October 2024, he made two $119 payments to address the other account . (Tr. 41) 
Some of the receipts are illegible. (SOR response) He expects to use his federal income 
tax refund to reduce the balance owed on the debts, and he intends to pay off both debts 
in 2026. (Tr. 45) 
Applicant timely filed his federal income tax returns. His adjusted gross income for 
the last five tax years rounded to the nearest thousand are as follows: 2019 ($28,000); 
2020 ($41,000); 2021 ($48,000); 2022 ($70,000); and 2023 ($78,000). (AE B) He had 
some periods of unemployment and underemployment when he came to the United 
States. (GE 1) His April 17, 2024, and November 27, 2024 credit bureau reports show the 
three SOR debts as currently delinquent, and numerous debts in paid, current, or paid as 
agreed status. (GE 10, GE 11) 
Applicant’s spouse has about $15,000 in her checking account, and she has 
purchased some land, which is valued at about $15,000. (Tr. 44) They are financially 
responsible. 
Foreign Influence  
Applicant worked with U.S. armed forces in Iraq from 2006 to 2009, and in 2009, 
he immigrated to the United States from Iraq as a refugee due to threats in Iraq. (Tr. 18 , 
36-37) In 2014, he was naturalized as a U.S. citizen. (Tr. 18) In 2017, he brought his 
fiancée to the United States. (Tr. 18) From 2015 to 2017, several companies employed 
him as an interpreter in Iraq. (Tr. 35) 
SOR ¶ 2.a alleges and Applicant admitted his mother and father are citizens and 
residents of Iraq. (Tr. 24-25) His father worked for the Iraqi government, and he is now 
3 
 
 
    
  
     
     
      
 
     
     
 
      
        
  
 
 
    
   
   
  
 
  
  
  
     
 
 
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
    
   
     
      
    
     
   
 
 
      
   
   
   
 
retired and receiving a pension from the Iraqi government. (Tr. 25) His parents came to 
the United States as refugees because there were threats or dangers to them in Iraq due 
to Applicant’s U.S. Army employment . (Tr. 25 -26) His mother is a U.S. permanent 
resident. (Tr. 36) His parents returned to Iraq, which is where they currently reside. (Tr. 
26-27) He communicates with his parents about once a month. (Tr. 47) 
SOR ¶ 2.b alleges and Applicant admitted his five siblings; three brothers and two 
sisters are all citizens and residents of Iraq. (Tr. 19-24) 
SOR ¶ 2. c alleges and Applicant admit ted that the Iraqi government or an Iraqi 
state government employs one of his sisters and three of his brothers. (Tr.19-24) Another 
sister and one brother -in-law work for an Iraqi state government. (Tr. 23- 24) He 
communicates with his siblings about once a month or bimonthly. (Tr. 47) 
SOR ¶ 2.d alleges and Applicant admitted that his mother-in-law and father-in-law 
are citizens and residents of Iraq. (Tr. 27) His father -in-law is an Iraqi government 
employee. (Tr. 27) He has quarterly contact with his parents-in-law. (GE 1) The frequency 
of his spouse’s contacts with her parents is not part of the record. 
Applicant previously held a top secret clearance with access to sensitive 
compartmented information, when he was working as a linguist. (Tr. 33, 53) He argued 
that the same family members were in his life when he worked as a linguist and held 
these levels of access to classified information. (Tr. 53) 
Iraq  
Iraq is a constitutional parliamentary republic. The October 2021 parliamentary 
elections were generally considered technically sound and credible. The elections were 
observed by the European Union and domestic civil society organizations and monitored 
by the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq. Domestic and international elections 
observers cited procedural and transparency improvements to the 2018 electoral 
process. They noted, however, that violence and intimidation by paramilitary militia 
groups in the months ahead of the elections likely affected voters’ choices and voter 
turnout. The elections occurred because of widespread protests that began in October 
2019 and led to the resignation of former Prime Minister Adil Abd al- Mahdi in December 
2019. On October 13, 2019, Iraqi Council of Representatives members elected Abdulatif 
Jamal Rashid as the president of Iraq. President Rashid named Mohammed Shiaa al -
Sudani as the prime minister designate. On October 27, 2019, the Council of 
Representatives confirmed Sudani as prime minister along with 21 of 23 of his cabinet 
ministers. On December 3, 2019, the Council of Representatives confirmed Sudani’s two 
remaining cabinet ministers. 
The U.S. Department of State travel advisory for Iraq is Level 4: Do not travel to 
Iraq due to terrorism, kidnapping, armed conflict, civil unrest, and Mission Iraq’s limited 
capacity to provide support to U.S. citizens. On April 1, 2024, the Department terminated 
the Ordered Departure status for U.S. Embassy Baghdad and U.S. Consulate General 
Erbil. 
4 
 
 
   
   
  
   
  
 
    
     
    
 
 
  
     
   
   
    
  
   
    
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
    
 
    
  
  
Terrorist and insurgent groups regularly attack Iraqi security forces and civilians. 
Anti-U.S. militias threaten U.S. citizens and international companies throughout Iraq. 
Attacks using improvised explosive devices, indirect fire, and unmanned aerial vehicles 
occur in many areas of the country, including Baghdad and other major cities. 
Demonstrations, protests, and strikes occur frequently throughout the country. These 
events can develop quickly without prior notice, and sometimes turn violent. Do not travel 
near Iraq’s northern borders due to the continued threat of attacks by terrorist groups, 
armed conflict, aerial bombardment, and civil unrest. U.S. citizens should especially avoid 
areas near armed groups in northern Iraq, which have been targeted with aerial strikes 
by neighboring countries’ militaries. 
The human rights situation worsened during the year 2023 due to increased 
federal and Kurdistan Regional Government restrictions on fundamental freedoms and 
civic space. There were intermittent attacks by the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria and its 
affiliated cells and sporadic fighting between the Iraqi Security Forces and the Islamic 
State of Iraq and Syria in remote areas. Other violent actions in Iraq involved Turkish 
military operations against Kurdistan Workers Party bases in Iraq; conflict with militias, 
including Iran- aligned Popular Mobilization Forces units; and sectarian, ethnic, and 
financially motivated violence. Numerous significant human rights violations continue to 
occur in Iraq. 
Terrorist groups and those inspired by such organizations are intent  on attacking  
U.S. citizens  abroad.  Terrorists increasingly use less -sophisticated methods of attack ,  
including knives,  firearms, and v ehicles  –  to target crowds at venues such as:  high-profile 
public events  (sporting contests,  political rallies, demonstrations, holiday  events,  
celebratory gatherings,  etc.); hotels, clubs, and restaurants frequented by tourists; places  
of worship; schools; parks;  shopping malls and markets; public transport ation systems,  
including subways, buses, trains,  and scheduled commercial flights.  Female U.S. citizens  
have been subject to threats,  kidnappings, abuse, and extortion by  their family, including  
loss of custody  of children or  forced marriage.  U.S. laws  do not protect U.S. citizens when  
they are outside of the United  States. The Iraqi police and legal system  may  offer little  
protection.  
Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, also known as  ISIS, ISIL or Da’esh, is  a designated  
terrorist  organization,  which is active in Syria and near the Iraq border. ISIS and its  
associated  terrorist groups indiscriminately commit attacks  and violent  atrocities in Iraq  
despite  improved Iraqi  government control. ISIS,  militia groups, and criminal gangs target  
U.S.  citizens  for attacks and hostage-taking.  
Ten years after capturing Mosul, ISIS appeared to be diminishing in numbers but 
continued to conduct mainly small -scale attacks in Iraq and Syria. The U.S. Central 
Command (USCENTCOM) said that ISIS is on pace to more than double the total number 
of attacks claimed in 2023, an indication that the group is attempting to reconstitute. The 
commander of Coalition forces said that the conditions that led to ISIS’s rise in 2014 
remained in Iraq and Syria. He said that while Coalition forces can disrupt ISIS’s 
capabilities, the Coalition cannot resolve the underlying instability that supports ISIS’s 
growth. ISIS displayed little change in its day-to-day operations, continuing to sporadically 
5 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
 
  
   
  
  
   
 
   
  
  
     
   
 
 
    
 
  
    
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
conduct low-level attacks. ISIS conducted two notable, high-casualty attacks in Salah ad-
Din province in May 2024. 
During 2022, the primary terrorist threats within Iraq are the remnants of ISIS’s Iraq 
province and Iran-aligned militia groups (IAMGs), which include U.S.-designated Kata’ib 
Hezbollah, Asa’ib Ahl al -Haq, and Harakat al -Nujaba. The U.S. -designated Kurdistan 
Workers’ Party, headquartered in the mountains of northern Iraq, operates in the vicinity 
of Sinjar, Ninewa province, in the Iraqi Kurdistan Region (IKR). 
There was a significant decrease in terrorist attacks in 2022, compared with the 
previous two years, thanks to the increasing effectiveness of the Iraqi Security Forces 
(ISF) in combating terrorism. The ISF generally acted decisively in engagements and 
demonstrated increasing capabilities in counterterrorism (CT) planning, operations, and 
investigations. After the killing of ISIS leaders Abu Ibrahim al -Qurayshi in February and 
Abu al -Hasan al -Hashimi al-Qurayshi in October, new ISIS leader Abu al -Husayn al -
Husayni al-Qurayshi assumed control of the group in November per ISIS social media 
accounts. Despite the decline in ISIS’s ability to carry out large attacks in Iraq, it 
maintained operational outposts in locations along the border of Syria. During 2022, ISIS 
continued to conduct operations, but at a smaller scale, particularly in the North and the 
West of Iraq and in rural areas with limited ISF presence. 
Iraqi counterterrorism functions are principally executed by the Counterterrorism 
Service (CTS), a Cabinet-level entity reporting directly to the prime minister, as well as by 
various security forces under the Ministries of Defense and Interior and the Kurdish 
Peshmerga. In limited instances, Popular Mobilization Forces (PMF) augment Iraqi Army-
and CTS-led operations. While all PMF are required by law to operate as part of the ISF, 
many PMF groups continued to defy central government command and control and 
engaged in violent and destabilizing activities in Iraq and neighboring Syria. Attacks by 
IAMGs against U.S interests in Iraq decreased in 2022. 
During 2022 Iraq saw a decrease in the volume of terrorist attacks, but ISIS and 
other groups continued to execute attacks using complex tactics. Iraq’s CTS estimates 
that 408 terrorist attacks occurred in 2022. 
In February 2024, the Office of  the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI)  
published the  Annual  Threat  Assessment of the U.S. Intelligence Community, which 
provided the f ollowing assessment of the situation in Iraq. In Iraq,  Iranian-aligned militias  
almost certainly will continue attacks against  U.S.  forces in Iraq and Syria. Since October  
2023, Iran has encouraged and enabled its various proxies and  partners—including  
Hizballah, Iranian- backed groups  in I raq and Syria, and the  Houthis in Yemen— to 
conduct  strikes against Israeli or U.S. interests in the region. Iran will continue to threaten  
U.S. interests, allies,  and influence in the Middle East  and intends to entrench its  
emergent status as a regional power while  minimizing  threats to the r egime and the risk  
of direct  military conflict. Decades of cultivating ties, providing support, funding, weapons,  
and training to its  partners and proxies around the Middle East,  including Lebanese  
Hizballah, the  Houthis, and Iranian backed militias in Iraq and Syria,  will enable Tehran  
to continue t o demonstrate the efficacy of leveraging these members of the “Axis of  
6 
 
 
   
 
    
  
   
 
 
    
  
 
     
     
   
     
      
    
    
    
   
 
 
  
 
   
   
   
     
 
 
     
     
 
 
  
  
   
    
 
   
 
  
 
  
   
  
   
Resistance”, a loose consortium of like- minded terrorist and militant actors . Iran will 
remain a threat to Israel and U.S. allies and interests in the region well after the Gaza 
conflict. While Iran will remain careful to avoid a direct conflict with either Israel or the 
United States, it nonetheless enabled scores of militia rocket, missile, and UAV attacks 
against U.S. forces in Iraq and Syria. 
On August 5, 2024, an Iran- aligned militia attacked U.S. forces stationed at Al -
Asad Airbase in western Iraq. This marked a dangerous escalation and demonstrated 
Iran's destabilizing role in the region. 
Iraq is among those countries effected by the Visa Waiver Program Improvement 
and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act of 2015. Under this Act, no foreign national may enter 
the United States without a visa if they have “been present, at any time on or after March 
1, 2011,” in Iraq, Syria, or any country designated by the U.S. Government as either a 
state sponsor of terrorism or as a “country of concern.” As defined in the Act, “countries 
of concern” include those which have “a significant [foreign terrorist organization] 
presence,” provide “a safe haven for terrorists,” and/or present other conditions such that 
an individual’s “presence . . . increases the likelihood that [they are] a credible threat to 
the national security of the United States.” 
Policies  
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion of the Executive 
Branch in regulating access to information pertaining to national security emphasizing, 
“no one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 
518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual 
is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The President 
has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicant’s eligibility for 
access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly consistent with the 
national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation 
about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Clearance 
7 
 
 
   
   
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
   
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
    
 
decisions must be “in terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a 
determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 § 7. 
Thus, nothing in this decision should be construed to suggest that it is based, in whole or 
in part, on any express or implied determination about applicant’s allegiance, loyalty, or 
patriotism. It is merely an indication the applicant has not met the strict guidelines the 
President, Secretary of Defense, and Director of National Intelligence have established 
for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 95 -0611 at 2 
(App. Bd. May 2, 1996). 
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial  
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶  E3.1.15. An applicant “has  the ultimate burden of  demonstrating that it  
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant  or continue his [or  her] security  
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01- 20700 at  3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). The burden of  
disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the Government.  See  ISCR Case No. 02-
31154 at  5 (App. Bd.  Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  Egan, 484 U.S. at 531;  see  AG  ¶ 2(b).   
Analysis  
Financial Considerations  
AG ¶ 18 articulates the security concern for financial problems: 
Failure to live within one’s means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
The Appeal Board explained the scope and rationale for the financial 
considerations security concern in ISCR Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012) 
(citation omitted) as follows: 
8 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
   
 
    
   
 
  
 
  
 
      
  
     
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
This concern is broader than the possibility that an applicant might 
knowingly compromise classified information in order to raise money in 
satisfaction of his or her debts. Rather, it requires a Judge to examine the 
totality of an applicant’s financial history and circumstances. The Judge 
must consider pertinent evidence regarding the applicant’s self -control, 
judgment, and other qualities essential to protecting the national secrets as 
well as the vulnerabilities inherent in the circumstances. The Directi ve 
presumes a nexus between proven conduct under any of the Guidelines 
and an applicant’s security eligibility. 
AG ¶ 19 includes disqualifying conditions that could raise a security concern and 
may be disqualifying in this case: 
(a) inability to satisfy  d
 ebts;  and  
(c) a history of not  m eeting financial  obligations.   
The r
ecord establishes the disqualifying conditions in AG ¶ ¶ 19(a) and 19(c), 
requiring additional inquiry about the possible applicability of mitigating conditions. 
Discussion of the disqualifying conditions is contained in the mitigation section, infra. 
The financial considerations mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 which may be 
applicable in this case are as follows: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was  so infrequent, or occurred  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good judgment;  
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial  pr oblem were largely beyond  
the person’s control  (e.g., loss of employment, a business  downturn,  
unexpected medical  emergency, a death, divorce or separation, clear  
victimization by  predatory  lending practi ces, or identity theft),  and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
(c) the individual  has  received or is receiving financial counseling for the  
problem from  a legitimate and credible source, such as a non- profit credit  
counseling service,  and there are clear indications that the problem is being  
resolved or is under control;   
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- f aith effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  and    
(e) the individual has  a r easonable basis to  dispute the legitimacy  of the 
past-due debt which is  the cause of the problem and provides documented  
proof to substantiate the basis of  the dispute or provides evidence of  actions  
to resolve the issue.  
9 
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
   
   
 
  
  
  
 
     
  
    
 
 
  
 
 
   
    
     
 
     
 
    
      
   
    
  
  
 
The Appeal Board in ISCR Case No. 10- 04641 at 4 (App. Bd. Sept. 24, 2013) 
explained Applicant’s responsibility for proving the applicability of mitigating conditions as 
follows: 
Once a concern arises regarding an Applicant’s security clearance 
eligibility, there is a strong presumption against the grant or maintenance of 
a security clearance. See Dorfmont v. Brown, 913 F. 2d 1399, 1401 (9th 
Cir. 1990), cert. denied, 499 U.S. 905 (1991). After the Government 
presents evidence raising security concerns, the burden shifts to the 
applicant to rebut or mitigate those concerns. See Directive ¶ E3.1.15. The 
standard applicable in security clearance decisions is that articulated in 
Egan, supra. “Any doubt concerning personnel being considered for access 
to classified information will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Directive, Enclosure 2 ¶ 2(b). 
Applicant provided some important  mitigating information.  He  has  had  periods of  
unemployment  and underemployment.  These issues adversely affected  his finances.  
However, “[e]ven if [an applicant’s] financial difficulties initially arose, in whole or in part,  
due to circumstances  outside his [or her] control, the [administrative judge] could still  
consider whether [the  applicant]  has since acted in a reasonable manner when dealing  
with those financial difficulties.” ISCR Case  No. 05-11366 a t 4 n.9 ( App. Bd.  Jan. 12,  
2007) (citing ISCR Case No. 03-13096 at  4 (App. Bd. Nov. 29, 2005); ISCR Case No.  99-
0462 at 4 (App. Bd. May 25, 2000); ISCR Case No.  99-0012 at  4 (App. Bd. Dec. 1, 1999)).  
The circumstances beyond his control are not recent,  and they did not  have a significant  
effect on his current finances.  AG  ¶ 20(b) is not established.  
A security clearance adjudication is not a debt-collection procedure. It is designed 
to evaluate an applicant’s judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness. See ISCR Case No. 
09-02160 (App. Bd. Jun. 21, 2010). Applicants are not required “to be debt-free in order 
to qualify for a security clearance. Rather, all that is required is that an applicant act 
responsibly given his or her circumstances and develop a reasonable plan for repayment, 
accompanied by ‘concomitant conduct’ that is, actions which evidence a serious intent to 
effectuate the plan.” ISCR Case No. 15- 02903 at 3 (App. Bd. Mar. 9, 2017) (denial of 
security clearance remanded) (citing ISCR Case No.13- 00987 at 3, n. 5 (App. Bd. Aug. 
14, 2014)). There is no requirement that an applicant make payments on all delinquent 
debts simultaneously, nor is there a requirement that the debts alleged in the SOR be 
paid first. See ISCR Case No. 07-06482 at 2-3 (App. Bd. May 21, 2008). 
Applicant established mitigation under AG ¶ 20(d). He showed good faith in his 
overall handling of his finances. Applicant provided evidence that he has been paying two 
of the three SOR debts in ¶¶ 1.b and 1.c, and the payments started on one of them in 
2023 before the SOR was issued. The SOR creditor in ¶ 1.c charged off the debt and 
failed to provide information to Applicant on a settlement or payment plan. He has 
numerous debt s in paid, current, or paid as agreed status. His income has been 
increasing, and he has used the increased funds to establish and maintain his financial 
responsibility. 
10 
 
 
  
   
    
 
  
 
 
    
 
   
    
   
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
I found Applicant’s statement at his hearing to be candid and credible. Future 
delinquent debts are unlikely to recur, and there are clear indications his financial 
problems are in the process of being resolved. His handling of his finances does not cast 
doubt on his current reliability, trustworthiness, and judgment. Financial considerations 
security concerns are mitigated. 
Foreign Influence  
AG ¶ 6 explains the security concern about “foreign contacts and interests” stating: 
Foreign contacts and interests, including, but not limited to, business, 
financial, and property interests, are a national security concern if they result 
in divided allegiance. They may also be a national security concern if they 
create circumstances in which the individual may be manipulated or induced 
to help a foreign person, group, organization, or government in a way 
inconsistent with U.S. interests or otherwise made vulnerable to pressure 
or coercion by any foreign interest. Assessment of foreign contacts and 
interests should consider the country in which the foreign contact or interest 
is located, including, but not limited to, considerations such as whether it is 
known to target U.S. citizens to obtain classified or sensitive information or 
is associated with a risk of terrorism. 
AG ¶ 7 lists conditions that could raise a foreign influence security concern and 
may be disqualifying in this case: 
(a) contact, regardless of  m
 ethod, with a foreign family member,  business  
or professional associate, friend,  or other  person who is a citizen of or  
resident in a foreign country if that contact  creates  a heightened risk of  
foreign exploitation,  inducement, manipulation,  pressure, or  coercion;  and    
(b) connections to a foreign person, group, government,  or  country that  
create a potential conflict of interest  between the individual’s obligation to  
protect classified or sensitive information or technology and the individual’s  
desire to help a foreign person, group, or country by providing that  
information or  technology.  
AG
 ¶¶ 7(a) and 7(b) are established. Additional discussion is in the foreign 
influence mitigation section, infra. 
AG ¶ 8 lists conditions that could mitigate foreign influence security concerns 
including: 
(a) the nature of the relationships with foreign  per sons, the country in which  
these persons  are located, or the positions  or activities of those persons in  
that country are such that it is unlikely the individual will be placed in a  
position of having to choose between the interests of a foreign individual,  
group, organization,  or government  and the interests of the United States;  
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
   
        
 
    
     
 
  
   
       
   
  
  
 
 
   
   
 
  
    
   
 
(b) there is no conflict of interest, either because the individual’s sense of  
l
oyalty or obligation to the foreign per son, or allegiance to the gr oup,  
government, or country is so minimal, or the individual has such deep and  
longstanding relationships and l  oyalties in the United States, that the 
individual can be expected to resolve any conflict of interest in favor of the  
U.S. interest;  
(c) contact or communication with foreign citizens is so casual and infrequent  
t
hat there is little likelihood that it could create a risk for foreign influence or  
exploitation;  
(d) the foreign contacts and activities are on U.S. Government business or  
ar
e approved by  the agency  head or  designee;  
(e) the individual has  pr omptly complied with existing agency requirements  
regarding the reporting of contacts, requests, or threats  from persons,  
groups, or organizations from  a foreign country; and  
(f) the value or routine nature of the foreign business, financial, or property  
i
nterests is such that  they are unlikely to result in a conflict and could  not  be  
used effectively to influence, manipulate, or pressure the individual.  
Ap
plicant’s parents, five siblings, and parents-in-law are all citizens and residents 
of Iraq. The Iraqi government or an Iraqi state government employs one of Applicant’s 
sisters and three of his brothers. He communicates with his parents on a monthly basis 
and his siblings about once a month or bimonthly. 
There is insufficient evidence that Applicant is close to his parents-in-law to cause 
a security concern. Security concerns in SOR ¶ 2.d are mitigated. 
The Appeal Board has concluded that contact every two months or three months 
constitutes “frequent contact” under AG ¶¶ 7 and 8. ISCR Case No. 14-05986 at 3-4 (App. 
Bd. Oct. 14, 2016). See also ISCR Case No. 04-09541 at 2-3 (App. Bd. Sept. 26, 2006) 
(finding contacts with applicant’s siblings once every four or five months not casual and 
infrequent and stating “The frequency with which Applicant speaks to his family members 
in Iran does not diminish the strength of his family ties.”). Frequency of contact is not the 
sole determinant of foreign interest security concerns. 
The mere possession of close family ties with people living in a foreign country is 
not, as a matter of law, disqualifying under Guideline B. However, if an applicant, his or 
her spouse, or someone sharing living quarters with them, has such a relationship with 
even one person living in a foreign country, this factor alone is sufficient to create the 
potential for foreign influence and could potentially result in the compromise of classified 
information. See ISCR Case No. 08 -02864 at 4-5 (App. Bd. Dec. 29, 2009) (discussing 
problematic visits of that applicant’s father to Iran). 
12 
 
 
  
  
    
 
 
   
  
     
   
     
 
 
     
 
 
  
 
     
 
      
 
   
   
   
 
    
  
      
 
    
    
 
  
   
The DOHA Appeal Board has indicated the security concerns raised by 
relationships or connections to persons who are high- level political officials ( HLPOs) in 
foreign governments or militaries stating: 
[A]n applicant’s ties, either directly or through a family member, to persons  
of  high rank in a foreign government or  military are of particular concern,  
insofar as it is foreseeable that through an association with such persons  
the applicant could come to t he attention of  those interested in acquiring  
U.S. protected information.  See, e.g., ISCR Case No.  08-10025 at 2 an d 4 
(App.  Bd. Nov. 3, 2009) (Applicant’s  brother was  a high- level foreign 
government official); ISCR  Case No.11-04980 at 2 and 6 (App. Bd.  Sep. 21,  
2012) (Applicant’s sister-in-law was married to a retired high-ranking official  
in a foreign army);  and ISCR Case No. 11-12632 at  2 and 5 (App. Bd. Feb.  
2, 2015) (Applicant’s  niece was an employee of a high- ranking foreign  
government official).  Given the facts in this case, it is foreseeable that the  
high-level governmental  position of Applicant’s  sibling c ould become a  
means through which  parties could attempt to exert  pressure on him.   
ISCR Case No. 17 -01979 at 5 (App. Bd. July 31, 2019) (reversing grant of security 
clearance and noting, “Application of the guidelines is not a comment on an applicant’s 
patriotism but merely an acknowledgment that people may act in unpredictable ways 
when faced with choices that could be important to a loved- one, such as a family 
member.”). See also ISCR Case No. 11-12623 at 2, 5 (App. Bd. Feb. 2, 2015) (reversing 
grant of security clearance and noting “[a]pplicant’s niece’s employment by the Israeli 
government, working for a high-ranking official”; however, the niece had left that position 
by the time of her hearing, and the Applicant had not traveled to Israel for several years 
before his hearing). 
The prominence of Applicant’s siblings in the Iraqi government is unclear. Any 
relationship to a foreign government official adds to the foreign influence security concern. 
His siblings may become more or less prominent in the future. They may have 
connections with more prominent Iraqi officials, which may raise their profiles in Iraq. The 
Iraqi government pays the salaries for Applicant’s siblings and his father’s pension. 
The Appeal Board addressed a case where an applicant had connections with a 
former foreign Russian government official and a current Russian government official. 
ISCR Case No. 19 -02177 at 2 (App. Bd. Aug. 12, 2020). However, his communications 
with them were not recent and infrequent “about once every one to two years with the last 
time being in 2017” three years before his security clearance hearing. Id. The Appeal 
Board concluded these contacts were sufficient to raise a security concern and affirmed 
the denial of his security clearance. Id. at 2-3. 
Not every foreign contact or tie presents the heightened risk under AG ¶ 7(a). The 
“heightened risk” denotes a risk greater than the normal risk inherent in having a family 
member living under a foreign government. The nature and strength of the ties and t he 
country involved (i.e., the nature of its government, its relationship with the United States, 
and its human rights record) are relevant in assessing whether there is a likelihood of 
13 
 
 
  
 
 
 
    
    
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
  
   
    
    
  
 
 
   
 
 
   
  
   
   
    
    
  
   
  
   
     
  
    
    
  
 
     
     
  
 
  
 
vulnerability to coercion. “[T]he nature of the foreign government involved, and the 
intelligence-gathering history of that government are among the important considerations 
that provide context for the other record evidence and must be brought to bear on the 
Judge’s ultimate conclusions in the case. The country’s human rights record is another 
important consideration.” ISCR Case No. 16-02435 at 3 (App. Bd. May 15, 2018) (citing 
ISCR Case No. 15-00528 at 3 (App. Bd. Mar. 13, 2017)). Another important consideration 
is the nature of a nation’s government’s relationship with the United States. These factors 
are relevant in assessing the likelihood that an applicant’s family members or friends living 
in that country are vulnerable to government coercion or inducement. 
The risk of coercion, persuasion, or duress is significantly greater if the foreign 
country has an authoritarian government, the government ignores the rule of law including 
widely accepted civil liberties, a family member is associated with or dependent upon the 
government, the government is engaged in a counterinsurgency, terrorism causes a 
substantial amount of death or property damage, or the country is known to conduct 
intelligence collection operations against the United States. The situation in Iraq involving 
terrorists, insurgents, and criminals in that country places a significant burden of 
persuasion on Applicant to demonstrate that his relationships with anyone living in that 
country does not pose a security risk. Applicant should not be placed into a position where 
he might be forced to choose between the protection of classified information and 
concerns about assisting someone living in Iraq. 
The issue under Guideline B is whether Applicant has ties or contacts with friends, 
family, or associates in Iraq, which raise security concerns because those ties and 
contacts create a potential vulnerability that criminals, terrorists, or Iraqi government 
officials could seek to exploit to get unauthorized access to U.S. classified information 
that he has by virtue of a security clearance. Applicant may be vulnerable to influence or 
pressure exerted on, or through, his family living in Iraq. 
International terrorist groups and insurgents are known to conduct intelligence 
activities as effectively as capable state intelligence services, and Iraq has a significant 
problem with terrorism and crime. Applicant’s family living in Iraq “could be a means 
through which Applicant comes to the attention of those who seek U.S. information or 
technology and who would attempt to exert coercion upon him.” ADP Case No. 14-01655 
at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 9, 2015) (citing ISCR Case No. 14- 02950 at 3 (Ap p. Bd. May 14, 
2015)). 
Applicant’s relationships with family living in Iraq create a potential conflict of 
interest because terrorists , insurgents, the Iraqi government, or criminals could place 
pressure on them to attempt to cause Applicant to compromise classified information. 
Those relationships create “a heightened risk of foreign inducement, manipulation, 
pressure, or coercion” under AG ¶ 7. Department Counsel produced substantial evidence 
of Applicant’s relationships with family living in Iraq and of violence and criminal activity 
in Iraq.  
A key factor in the AG ¶ 8(b) analysis is Applicant’s “deep and longstanding 
relationships and loyalties in the U.S.” His relationship with the United States must be 
14 
 
 
    
 
  
     
   
         
 
  
  
  
   
   
      
   
     
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
      
  
   
 
  
  
 
  
    
    
weighed against the potential conflict of interest created by his connections to Iraq. 
Applicant was born in Iraq. He worked with U.S. armed forces in Iraq from 2006 to 2009, 
and in 2009, he immigrated to the United States from Iraq as a refugee due to threats in 
Iraq. In 2014, he was naturalized as a U.S. citizen. In 2017, he brought his fiancée to the 
United States, and he was married in 2017. From 2015 to 2017, several companies 
employed him as an interpreter in Iraq. His spouse and child are U.S. citizens. 
These factors are balanced against the security concerns outlined in the SOR. 
Applicant’s access to classified information could add risk to his family in Iraq . There is 
no allegation that he would choose to help the terrorists, the Iraqi government, or criminals 
against the interests of the United States. A Guideline B adjudication is not a judgment 
on an applicant’s character or loyalty to the United States. It is a determination as to 
whether an applicant’s circumstances foreseeably present a security risk. See ISCR Case 
No. 19-00831 at 5 (App. Bd. July 29, 2020). The concern here pertains to the risk to his 
family living in Iraq and how that risk could be used to coerce Applicant. It does not relate 
to his loyalty or patriotism to the United States. 
Applicant has not rebutted the concern arising from his relationships with family in 
Iraq. His connections to the United States, taken together, are insufficient to overcome 
the foreign influence security concerns under Guideline B. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the Applicant’s 
conduct and all the circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.   
Under AG ¶ 2(c), “[t]he ultimate determination” of whether to grant a security 
clearance “must be an overall common-sense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines” and the whole- person concept. My comments under Guideline F are 
incorporated in my whole- person analysis. Some of the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) were 
addressed under that guideline but some warrant additional comment. 
Applicant is a 48 -year-old commercial truckdriver who wishes to resume his 
employment as linguist or interpreter. In 1999, he graduated from high school, and in 
2006, he received a bachelor’s degree. His majors in college were education and the 
15 
 
 
      
     
 
   
   
     
    
    
   
   
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
    
  
  
 
  
    
 
 
      
     
    
   
 
  
 
  
      
   
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
future. In 2017, he married, and his child is six years old. His spouse is a teacher. His 
spouse and child reside in the United States and are U.S. citizens. 
The evidence supporting mitigation of financial considerations security concerns is 
detailed in the financial considerations section, supra. He paid some debts, established 
payment plans on others, and is current on other debts. He is acting in good faith with all 
of his creditors. He understands that he needs to pay his debts . He was sincere and 
credible at his hearing. His progress resolving his SOR debts has established a 
“meaningful track record” of debt re-payment. See ISCR Case No. 07-06482 at 2-3 (App. 
Bd. May 21, 2008). I am confident he will maintain his financial responsibility. 
The reasons for denying Applicant’s security clearance are more persuasive. A 
Guideline B decision concerning Iraq must take into consideration the geopolitical 
situation and dangers in that country. See ISCR Case No. 04-02630 at 3 (App. Bd. May 
23, 2007) (remanding because of insufficient discussion of geopolitical situation and 
suggesting expansion of whole-person discussion); ISCR Case No. 02-26130 at 3 (App. 
Bd. Dec. 7, 2006) (reversing grant of security clearance because of terrorist activity in the 
West Bank). Iraq is a dangerous place because of violence from terrorists, insurgents, 
and criminals. Terrorists continue to threaten the interests of the United States, and those 
who assist the United States.  
Aside from his contacts with close relatives (his parents and siblings), the other 
contacts with his parents-in-law in Iraq are mitigated because they are unlikely to result 
in a risk of coercion from nefarious entities in Iraq. 
Applicant has frequent contacts with his siblings and parents, who are citizens and 
residents of Iraq. Concern for and loyalty to family living in Iraq is a positive character 
trait. However, Applicant did not meet his burden of showing that he was unlikely to come 
to the attention of those interested in acquiring U.S. classified information. 
It is well settled that once a concern arises regarding an applicant’s security 
clearance eligibility, there is a strong presumption against granting a security clearance. 
See Dorfmont, 913 F. 2d at 1401. “[A] favorable clearance decision means that the record 
discloses no basis for doubt about an applicant’s eligibility for access to classified 
information.” ISCR Case No. 18-02085 at 7 (App. Bd. Jan. 3, 2020) (citing ISCR Case 
No.12-00270 at 3 (App. Bd. Jan. 17, 2014)). 
I have carefully applied the law, as set forth in Egan, Exec. Or. 10865, the Directive, 
the AGs, and the Appeal Board’s jurisprudence to the facts and circumstances in the 
context of the whole person. Applicant mitigated financial considerations security 
concerns; however, he failed to mitigate foreign influence security concerns.  
16 
 
 
 
    
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_________________________ 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:    FOR  APPLICANT   
Subparagraphs 1.a, 1.b, and1.c:  For  Applicant  
Paragraph 2,  Guideline B:   AGAINST  APPLICANT   
S
ubparagraphs  2.a, 2.b, and  2.c:  Against  Applicant  
Subparagraph 2.d:  For Applicant  
Conclusion  
Considering all of the circumstances in this case, it is not clearly consistent with 
the interests of national security to grant Applicant eligibility for a security clearance. 
Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Mark Harvey 
Administrative Judge 
17 