                                                              
 
 
 
                 
  
           
             
 
 
         
           
                          
           
        
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
    
 
 
    
  
   
    
 
   
   
      
  
   
______________ 
______________ 
DEPART
MENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 24-00491 
Appearances  
For Government: Troy L. Nussbaum, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
10/08/2025 
Decision 
MASON, Paul J., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant’s evidence in mitigation is insufficient to overcome the security 
concerns arising from the guideline for financial considerations. Her security clearance 
eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On April 17, 2023, Applicant submitted an Electronic Questionnaires for 
Investigations Processing (e-QIP) to retain a security clearance required for her position 
with a defense contractor. She provided a personal security interview (PSI) to an 
investigator from the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) on July 7, 2023 . The 
Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) Adjudications and Vetting 
Services (AVS) completed their investigation and could not render affirmative findings 
required to grant a security clearance and issued to Applicant a Statement of Reasons 
(SOR), dated April 10, 2024, detailing security concerns under the guideline for financial 
considerations (Guideline F). The action was taken under Executive Order (E.O.) 10865, 
Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
    
      
    
    
     
      
     
    
   
      
 
 
   
  
     
      
     
    
    
   
      
   
 
 
      
    
   
    
  
 
   
       
     
  
  
Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security 
Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992, as amended (Directive), and the 
adjudicative guidelines (AG), effective in the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
On April 29, 2024, Applicant provided an answer to the SOR admitting some 
allegations and denying others. A notice of hearing was issued on April 8, 2025, for a 
Microsoft Teams virtual hearing on May 6, 2025. The hearing was held as scheduled. The 
four Government Exhibits (GE) were admitted into evidence as Applicant did not object 
to them. She submitted no exhibits at the hearing. She testified. The record remained 
open until July 18, 2025 to allow Applicant an opportunity to submit post -hearing 
documentation that she said she could retrieve. In an email dated June 4, 2025, she 
stated that some of the creditors agreed to payment plans but would not provide 
documented agreements. She asked about the type of documents necessary to establish 
proof of payments. Applicant’s information request and my response are marked as 
Applicant’s Exhibit (AE) A. 
On July 7, 2025, Applicant sent three emails to me regarding her efforts to 
establish payment plans. Department Counsel did n ot object to the post -hearing 
submissions. In the first email, she announced a payment plan had been established with 
one of the collection agencies for an unlisted car creditor. Under the plan, she was 
scheduled to begin payments of $235 a month on July 25, 2025. The other plan describes 
payments of $218 to be paid on a monthly basis. Neither plan reflects that actual 
payments were made. In a third email, Applicant informed me that she was employed in 
an administrative assistant position. Her three post-hearing submissions, with supporting 
documentation, are marked and admitted into evidence as AE B. The transcript (Tr. ) was 
received on May 27, 2025. The record closed on July 7, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 37 years old and single with an 18-year-old son. She married in May 
2017 and divorced in October 2021. (Tr. 1 at 15) She received a high school diploma in 
June 2006 and has been attending college since March 2023. She anticipates attaining 
a computer science degree in January 2026. Applicant has no military service. (GE 1 at 
13; Tr. 6) 
Applicant has been working for her current employer in the passport center since 
May 2023. Her previous employment was at the United States Post Office from 2015 to 
May 2023. Her other jobs before 2015 were on the administrative staff of a law firm and 
as a substitute teacher. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
       
     
 
   
   
      
     
  
 
  
  
  
     
   
   
     
   
 
    
 
    
    
 
    
  
    
   
       
    
  
    
       
 
     
    
      
 
      
History of Financial  Debts  
The SOR lists nine delinquent debts totaling $37, 576. The debts became 
delinquent between 2017 and 2023, with most of the debts fall ing past due in 2022 and 
2023. (GE 2; GE 4) The SOR alleges under ¶ 1.j that Applicant has not filed her state tax 
returns for 2014, 2015, and 2016. (SOR ¶ 1.j) 
In her July 2023 PSI, Applicant recalled that she was delinquent on a credit -
builder loan because of unpaid s ick leave she took from December 2021 to February 
2022. She surmised that the account was subsequently paid in full. The loan was not 
alleged in the SOR. She revealed that she has used a credit monitoring service but not a 
credit-counseling service. (GE 3 at 3) 
Applicant’s 18 -year-old son has a learning disability necessitating an 
individualized education program (IEP) from the public school systems he has attended. 
Applicant’s regular participation in IEP meetings and programs to assist in her son’s 
education has required her to take leave from work, which has reduced the amount of 
money to pay bills. (Tr. 35) While Applicant is supposed to receive child support of $450 
a month, she has only been receiving that amount three or four months out of the year. 
This situation has had a negative effect on her ability to pay debts. (Tr. 30 -32) From 
November 2020 to July 2021, Applicant was unemployed due to the COVID -pandemic. 
Though Applicant received unemployment compensation, the amount translated to about 
a 35% loss of her regular income. (Tr. 32-34) 
SOR ¶ 1.a – Though Applicant denied this allegation in her answer to the SOR , 
she provided no reason for the denial. This is an installment loan account for a car. She 
purchased the car in 2019. The payments of $706 a month were too high and she returned 
the car voluntarily, though she was unable to recall the time between her purchase of the 
car and when she returned it to the dealer . In 2021, she recalled receiving a letter 
describing a class action lawsuit that was filed against the creditor for no t properly 
accounting for customers’ installment payment s. She received less than a $1,000 in 
damages from a settlement of the lawsuit filed by the creditor’s aggrieved customers. She 
claimed that she had proof of the favorable out come. The debt was sold to a collection 
agency but she objected to the collection agency’s right to collect the debt. (GE 3 at 4; 
Tr. 25-29, 49) No proof was provided concerning the favorable outcome of the lawsuit 
and the amount of money that she still owes to the collection agency. 
SOR ¶ 1.b – In her answer to the SOR, Applicant denied that she purchased 
furniture under an installment contract. When she did not make the required monthly 
payments in the time allotted, the account became delinquent. Though she indicated her 
finances have improved, she could not explain why she did not resume payments. At the 
hearing, she explained that the account was purchased by another credit agency. Since 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
  
     
 
      
   
    
   
  
  
      
    
   
     
 
    
      
    
     
   
       
 
     
    
       
   
   
   
 
        
 
   
      
 
      
 
    
 
    
 
   
   
 
the debt no longer appears in her credit report, she does not believe she owes the debt. 
(GE 3 at 4; Tr. 30) The debt has not been resolved. 
SOR ¶ 1.c – Though Applicant denied the allegation i n her answer to the SOR, 
she admitted opening the account to purchase a bed. Payments of the account were 
automatically deducted from her Government paycheck. Her paycheck was eventually 
garnished for non- payment. Applicant did not disclose the debt in her April 2023 e- QIP 
because she did not think garnishments were the same as delinquent debts. The debt 
became delinquent when Applicant took a leave of absence from February to May 2023 
due to the passing of her grandmother and her fiancé. Applicant told the Government 
investigator in July 2023 that since she had resumed employment, she would soon 
resume paying the debts. At the hearing, Applicant indicated that she had made no 
progress in dealing with the debt. (GE 3 at 3-5; Tr. 36) The debt is unresolved. 
SOR ¶ 1.d – Applicant has denied this cell phone account throughout the security 
investigation. She believed that she was the victim of identity theft. She did not disclose 
the account in her April 2023 e-QIP because she did not want to admit responsibility for 
an account that did not belong to her. Though Applicant provided no record of disputing 
this account, the account does not appear on the Government credit report . (GE 3 at 5; 
Tr. 37) See GE 2. The account is resolved in Applicant’s favor. 
SOR ¶ 1.e – This is a m edical account that became delinquent in April 2023. 
Applicant was certain that her medical insurance was active at the time the services were 
rendered. She also pointed out that the debt did not represent co-insurance but a regular 
bill. She opined that she could get documentation. She claims that she disputed the debt 
and it was removed from her credit report. There is no evidence that she disputed the 
debt since it still appears in the Government CBR. (GE 2 at 3; Tr. 37-38) 
SOR ¶ 1.f – Even though Applicant admitted the debt in her answer and was 
trying to negotiate payments with the collection agency, she claimed at the hearing that 
she disputed the debt and it was removed from her credit report. Her claim is contradicted 
by Government CBR that shows the debt is still in her credit report. (GE 2 at 3; Tr. 38-39) 
SOR ¶ 1.g – Though Applicant admitted this debt in her answer to the SOR, she 
added at the hearing that she disputed the debt and would be able to get documentation 
to support her dispute. (Tr. 39) No documentation was presented. 
SOR ¶ 1.h – Though Applicant admitted the debt in her answer to the SOR, and 
was working out payment options, at the hearing she added that she was disputing the 
debt and intended to retrieve documentation to support her dispute. (Tr. 40) No 
documentation was submitted. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
  
     
    
  
     
 
    
     
       
    
  
   
    
 
   
     
   
    
  
   
    
     
 
   
     
  
 
 
   
    
 
  
    
     
 
      
   
     
 
 
SOR ¶ 1.i – This is a delinquent account for a personal loan. Applicant admitted 
in her answer to the SOR that she was searching for payment options wit h the creditor. 
She did not know the present status of the debt but recalled that the payment options 
were too high in 2024 in her discussions with the creditor. She received contact from the 
collection agency but disputed the account because she was dissatisfied with the 
information the collection agency provided concerning the account . She took the same 
position with the SOR ¶ 1.a account. (Tr. 40-43) The account is not resolved. 
SOR ¶ 1.j – In her answer to the SOR, Applicant denied failing to file the missing 
state tax returns for 2014, 2015, and 2016. She could not remember what tax service she 
used eight to ten years ago but she believed she filed returns for the missing tax years. 
She supported her answer with her testimony at the hearing in believing that she did file 
the missing returns. She was unsure whether she could produce proof of having filed 
returns for missing years. (Tr. 43-48) The allegation is found against her as she provided 
no documentation to support her claim of filing the state returns. 
A current CBR dated May 16, 2025, reflects that Applicant is delinquent on at 
least two other accounts. In September 2022, she purchased another car. The car was 
repossessed in October 2024 due to her falling behind in payments. In May 2023, she 
cosigned for a car that a family member purchased. The car developed major engine 
problems and the family member stopped making payments on the car. Therefore, as 
cosigner, Applicant became liable for the account. (GE 4 at 1, 4) Because these two 
additional debts were not alleged in the SOR, they cannot be used to independently deny 
her security clearance application. However, the evidence may be used to assess an 
applicant’s credibility; to evaluate an applicant’s evidence in mitigation or changed 
circumstances; to consider whether an applicant has demonstrated successful 
rehabilitation; or to provide evidence under the whole- person analysis. The unalleged 
conduct will be considered for these limited purposes. 
Applicant gets paid between $1,900 and $2,000 in every paycheck that she 
receives once or twice a month. After she pays her expenses, she does not have any 
money left over to save. (Tr. 53 -54) See GE 3 at 14. While Applicant claimed tha t she 
was enrolled in a credit -monitoring service in la te 2021, she has never had credit 
counseling. Though she submitted a personal financial statement (PFS) in April 2024, the 
net remainder of $12,652 bears no logical relationship to the monthly income of $4,520 
or total monthly expenses of $3,474 posted in the exhibit. (GE 3 at 14) More importantly, 
the PFS contradicts Applicant’s testimony where she indicated she has no money left 
over after she receives her check and pays her expenses. (Tr. 54) In addition, there is no 
evidence of financial counseling, i.e., balancing a checkbook, saving money, using cash 
rather than credit, or budgeting, to facilitate the management of her budget. 
Policies  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
     
   
   
  
 
  
    
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines, whi ch should be applied 
with common sense and the general factors of the whole- person concept. All available 
and reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, 
should be carefully reviewed before rendering a decision. The pr otection of the national 
security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(d) requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning 
personnel being considered for national security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the 
national security.” Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to 
establish controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant 
is responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, 
or mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion in seeking a favorable security decision. 
Analysis  
Guideline F, Financial Considerations 
AG ¶ 18. Failure to live within one's means, satisfy debts, and meet 
financial obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
Affluence that cannot be explained by known sources of income is also a 
security concern insofar as it may result from criminal activity, including 
espionage. 
AG ¶ 19. Conditions that could raise a security concern and may be disqualifying 
include: 
(a) inability to satisfy  d
 ebts;    
(b) unwillingness  t o satisfy debts regardless of the ability to do so;   
(c) a history of not  m eeting financial  obligations; and  
(f) failure to file or fraudulently  f iling annual  Federal,  state, or local income  
tax returns or failure  to  pay  annual Federal, state, or local  income tax as  
required.   
6 
 
 
 
 
 
       
       
        
      
        
   
   
  
   
  
     
     
      
   
   
    
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Good judgment is the primary trait for a holder of a security clearance. In judging 
whether a person possesses good judgment, investigating how a person handles their 
personal finances is a valuable way to determine whether they have the necessary 
judgment to safeguard classified information at all times and in all places. Paying debts 
in a timely fashion shows good judgment but paying debts sporadically or not at all, 
suggests that an applicant will display the same attitude toward security rules she 
chooses not to follow. Adverse evidence from credit reports can usually meet the 
Government’s obligation of proving delinquent debts. See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 14-02403 
at 3 (App. Bd. Aug. 18, 2015); ISCR Case No. 03- 20327 at 4 (App. Bd. Oct. 26, 2006) 
The Government’s credit reports establish that the debts listed in the SOR became 
delinquent between 2017 and October 2023, with most of the debts becoming delinquent 
in 2022 and 2023. The total amount of debt posted in the SOR is the revised amount of 
$35,610, because SOR ¶ 1.d has been found in Applicant’s favor. Several of the list ed 
debts have been delinquent for three years. AG ¶¶ 19(a) and 19(c) apply. AG ¶ 19(b) 
applies because Applicant has demonstrated throughout the security investigation a 
failure to act on her delinquent debts in a financially responsible manner. SOR ¶ 1.f 
applies based on Applicant’s failure to file state tax returns for 2014, 2015, and 2016. 
AG ¶ 20. Conditions that could mitigate security concerns include: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or
  occurred  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast  
doubt on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  
judgment;  
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely  
bey
ond the person's control (e.g., loss of employment, a business  
downturn, unexpected medical emergency, a death, divorce or separation,  
clear victimization by  predatory lending practices,  or identity theft), and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
(c) the individual has received or is receiving financial counseling for the  
pr
oblem from  a legitimate and credible source, such as a non-profit credit  
counseling service,  and there are clear indications that the problem is  
being resolved or is under control;   
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- f aith effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  
(e) t he individual has  a reasonable basis to  dispute  the legitimacy  of the 
past-due debt which is  the cause  of the problem and provides documented  
proof to substantiate the basis of  the dispu te  or pr ovides evidence  of  
actions  to resolve the issue;  and  
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
    
    
      
     
    
    
 
     
     
      
   
    
     
   
 
    
 
     
    
  
     
    
 
   
  
        
  
 
        
   
    
   
   
 
   
   
  
(g) the individual has made arrangements with the appropriate tax  
aut
hority to file or  pay  the amount owed  and  is in compliance with those  
arrangements.   
AG
 ¶ 20 (a) is not available for mitigation because eight of the nine listed debts 
have not been favorably resolved. Although the April 2024 SOR listed nine delinquent 
debts, I have found SOR ¶ 1.c in Applicant ’s favor because it is not listed in the 
Government credit report. On July 7, 2025, Applicant still owes for the eight delinquent 
debts plus at least two additional accounts not alleged in the SOR that have become 
delinquent more recently . Her current indebtedness to at least eight creditors raises 
ongoing security concerns about her reliability, trustworthiness and good judgment. 
I have considered the learning disability of Applicant’s son and her commendable 
efforts with the school systems to help him achieve his IEP objectives. Leaving work to 
attend IEP meetings has reduced her earnings over the years which has meant less 
money available to pay bills. Receiving irregular child support payments also reduced her 
ability to pay her debts. Applicant’s unemployment compensation during unemployment 
from November 2020 to July 2021 because of COVID was another fact that reduced her 
earnings by 35%. 
However, other than Applicant’s claims of calling several of the creditors, she 
provided no documentation in advance of the May 2025 hearing of taking action to resolve 
any of the listed debts. The documentation she finally provided were two payment plans 
without evidence that payments were made under with either payment plan. In sum, AG 
¶ 20(b) has minimal application because Applicant did not act responsibly under the 
circumstances. AG ¶ 20(d) is likewise unavailable for mitigation as there is no evidence 
of a good-faith effort to repay past due debts. 
AG ¶ 20(c) is inapplicable because Applicant has never had financial counseling. 
Though she claims she participated in a credit -monitoring service, there is no evidence 
to show that the service was effective in helping Applicant regain control over her 
indebtedness. 
AG ¶ 20(e) does not apply to the listed debts except for the SOR ¶ 1.d account. 
As to the other eight debts, Applicant failed to state a reasonable basis for the disputes 
and provided no “documented proof to substantiate the basis of the dispute.” AG ¶ 20(g) 
is not available for mitigation because Applicant did not provide proof that she filed the 
missing state tax returns for 2014, 2015, and 2016. 
In Guideline F cases, the DOHA Appeal Board has repeatedly held that, to 
establish her case in mitigation, an applicant must present a “meaningful track record” of 
debt repayments that result in debt reduction. See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 05 -01920 at 5 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
  
      
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
  
   
 
      
   
   
    
  
     
  
 
  
(App. Bd. Mar. 1, 2007). While an applicant is not required to show that every debt listed 
in the SOR is paid, the applicant must show that she has a plan for debt resolution and 
has taken significant action to implement the plan. See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 02 -25499 
at 2 (App. Bd. Jun. 5, 2006). Applicant has done neither. 
Whole-Person Concept  
I have examined the evidence under the specific guidelines in the context of the 
nine general factors of the whole-person concept listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature,  extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct,  to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of  
rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral  changes; (7) the motivation  
for the conduct; (8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for 
access to classified information must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon 
careful consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
Applicant is 37 years old and has an 18- year-year old son. She has devotedly 
raised her son and faithfully participated in her son’s IEP over the years, coping with the 
challenge of inconsistent child support from the father, and a six -month period of 
unemployment in 2021 caused by the COVI D- pandemic. However, Applicant has not 
been proactive in addressing her delinquent debts listed in the SOR. Due to the absence 
of financial counseling, a budget, or an overall plan to address her debts, she has not 
overcome the current security concerns based on the guideline for financial 
considerations. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
    
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
____________ 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  G uideline F:  AGAINST APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a,1.b, 1.d-1.j:   Against Applicant  
Subparagraph 1.c:   For Applicant  
Conclusion  
In l
ight of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national security interest of the United States to grant Applicant 
eligibility for access to classified information. Eligibility for access to classified information 
is denied. 
Paul J. Mason 
Administrative Judge 
10 