 
 
                                                                                                                    
          
           
             
 
 
 
    
  
              
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
       
      
 
 
 
   
       
      
     
      
     
    
     
  
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00944 
) 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: 
Brittany C.M. White, Esquire, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: 
Pro se 
03/27/2025 
Decision 
GLENDON, John Bayard, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant has not mitigated the security concerns raised under the drug 
involvement and substance misuse adjudicative guideline. National security eligibility for 
access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a Questionnaire for National Security Positions on November 
2, 2023 (the Questionnaire). On August 12, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and 
Security Agency (DCSA) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing 
security concerns under Guideline H (Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse). The 
action was taken under Executive Order 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information 
Within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of Defense (DoD) 
Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program 
(January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) effective 
within DoD after June 8, 2017. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
                
            
    
      
         
             
            
  
 
 
             
         
       
          
       
 
 
 
       
        
           
    
 
 
 
         
           
          
           
         
          
On October 8, 2024, Applicant responded to the SOR in writing (Answer). He 
requested that his case be decided on the written record in lieu of a hearing. (Item 2.) In 
his Answer, he admitted the single SOR allegation and provided details about his use of 
psilocybin mushrooms . He also submitted two documents. On November 26, 202 4, 
Department Counsel submitted the Government’s written case. A complete copy of the 
file of relevant material (FORM), consisting of Items 1 to 4, was provided to Applicant. He 
received the FORM on December 22, 2024. He elected not to respond to the FORM. The 
case was assigned to me on March 4, 2025. Based upon a review of the pleadings and 
exhibits, national security eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 45 years old and works as a director for a U.S. Government 
contractor. He received a bachelor’s degree in 2003 and a master’s degree in 2007. 
Applicant and his wife separated in December 2022 . As of August 2024, h e expected 
their divorce would be finalized in December 2024. He currently lives with a “domestic 
partner.” He is a first-time applicant for a security clearance. (Item 3 at 5, 9-11, 20, 22-23, 
33; Item 4 at 4, 9) 
SOR Paragraph 1, Guideline H (Drug Involvement and Substance  Misuse)  
Subparagraph 1.a. The Government alleged that Applicant is ineligible for a 
security clearance because he used psilocybin mushrooms (the Drug) with varying 
frequency from about March 2022 to May 2024 (the Period). I find that the following facts 
based upon the documentary record, including the Answer: 
Applicant admitted  this  allegation,  stating  that  his “instances of usage  were  within  
directed  ‘microdose’ concentrations [of  the  Drug]  and  used  recreationally, during  non-
working  hours  for its calming/relaxation  properties.”  He claimed  that he  experimented  with  
the  Drug  approximately five  times during  the  Period. Applicant further stated  that all  of the  
Drugs  provided  to  him  were  purchased  by other parties  in  states where the  Drug  can  be  
legally purchased  under state  law and  is commercially available.  He acknowledged, 
however,  that  his use  constituted  “misuse  of  a  Federally categorized  controlled  
substance.” He indicated  in the  Answer that he  takes full  responsibility for his use  of the  
Drug.  (Item 2; Item 3  at 31-32; Item 4  at 6, 10.)  
Applicant’s use of the Drug preceded his submission of the Questionnaire in 
November 2023 . He disclosed his use of the Drug in the Questionnaire by answering 
“Yes” to a question asking if he had “illegally used any drugs or controlled substance” in 
the preceding seven years. This response put Applicant on notice that he had violated 
federal law by using the Drug since March 2022. Applicant admitted, in his response to 
the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeal’s interrogatories, that he used the Drug as 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
      
        
   
        
   
 
           
      
         
       
   
      
            
 
 
      
     
         
       
       
 
 
 
recently as May 2024, about six months after his submission of the Questionnaire. (Item 
3 at 31; Item 4 at 6.) 
Mitigation  
Applicant wrote  in the  Questionnaire  that “there is a  possibility  that [ he]  will  
microdose  [the  Drug]  for therapeutic/meditative/clarity of  mind  purposes.”   
In  the  Answer, he  expressed  a  change  in his view on  this issue  and  wrote, “I personally  
vow to  abstain  indefinitely from  any  controlled  substance  use  and  consider this  document  
as a  signed  statement of intent  thereof.” (Emphasis in  original.) He  also commented  that  
he  has dissociated  from  the  person  who  provided  the  Drug  in the  past  (his wife’s brother)  
and that his domestic partner has pledged to support his abstinence.  He further  claimed  
that she   has vowed  to  maintain abstinence  from  the  use  or possession  of any controlled  
substance.  (Item 2 at 1; Item  3 at 31.)   
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for national security eligibility, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines (AG) list 
potentially disqualifyin g conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in 
evaluating an applicant’s national security eligibility. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. The entire 
process is a conscientious scrutiny of applicable guidelines in the context of a number of 
variables known as the whole -person concept. The administrative judge must conside r 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires, “Any doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. I have not drawn inferences based on mere speculation or 
conjecture. 
Directive ¶  E3.1.14, requires the  Government to  present evidence  to  establish  
controverted  facts  alleged  in the  SOR. Under Directive ¶  E3.1.15, “The  applicant is   
responsible  for presenting  witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
   
 
     
          
  
 
 
 
mitigate  facts admitted  by the  applicant or proven  by Department Counsel, and  has the  
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining  a favorable clearance  decision.”  
A  person  who  seeks  access to  classified  information  enters into  a  fiduciary  
relationship  with  the  Government predicated  upon  trust and  confidence. This relationship  
transcends normal duty hours and  endures throughout off-duty  hours. The  Government  
reposes  a  high  degree  of trust and  confidence  in individuals to  whom  it grants national  
security eligibility.  Decisions include, by necessity, consideration  of the  possible  risk the  
applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail  to  protect or safeguard classifi ed 
information. Such  decisions entail  a  certain degree  of legally permissible  extrapolation  as  
to  potential, rather than  actual, risk of  compromise of classified  or sensitive information.  
Finally, as emphasized  in Section  7  of Executive  Order 10865, “Any determination  under  
this order adverse to  an  applicant  shall  be  a  determination  in  terms of the  national interest  
and  shall  in no  sense  be  a  determination  as to  the  loyalty of  the  applicant  concerned.”  
See also Executive  Order 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing  multiple prerequisites  for access  
to classified or sensitive information.)  
Analysis  
Paragraph 1  - Guideline H, Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
The security concerns relating to the guideline for drug involvement and substance 
misuse are set out in AG ¶ 24, which reads as follows: 
The  illegal use  of controlled  substances,  to  include  the  misuse  of  
prescription  and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances 
that  cause  physical or mental impairment  or are  used  in a  manner  
inconsistent with  their  intended  purpose  can  raise  questions about an  
individual’s reliability and  trustworthiness, both  because  such  behavior may  
lead  to  physical or psychological impairment and  because  it raises  
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules,  
and  regulations. Controlled  substance  means  any “controlled  substance” as  
defined  in 21  U.S.C. 802. Substance  misuse  is the  generic term  adopted  in  
this guideline  to  describe any of the behaviors listed above.  
AG ¶ 25 sets forth the following condition s that could raise security concerns and 
may be disqualifying in this case: 
(a)   any substance misuse (see above definition).  
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
     
        
          
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
         
         
               
    
   
 
    
       
          
               
           
            
        
           
              
 
 
 
The record evidence establishes AG ¶ 25(a). The burden, therefore, shifts to 
Applicant. AG ¶ 26 provides four conditions that could mitigate security concerns raised 
under this guideline. I have considered all four of the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 26 
and have concluded that the following two conditions have possible application to the 
facts of this case: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or happened  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur or does  not cast  doubt  
on  the  individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  judgment;  and  
(b) the  individual acknowledges his or her drug  involvement and  substance  
misuse,  provides evidence  of  actions taken  to  overcome the  problem, and  
has established  a pattern of abstinence, including, but not limited  to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts;  
(2) changing  or avoiding  the  environment where drugs were  
used; and  
(3) providing  a  signed  statement of intent to  abstain  from  all  
drug  involvement and substance  misuse,  acknowledging  that  
any future involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation  of  
national security eligibility.   
AG ¶ 26(a) is not established. Applicant’s use of the Drug was recent , and 
significantly, it continued after he submitted the Questionnaire, in which he acknowledged 
that his use of the Drug was in violation of federal law. His use was infrequent, but it 
occurred under circumstances that cast doubt on his current, reliability, trustworthiness, 
and good judgment. 
AG ¶ 26( b) is only partially established. Applicant has acknowledged his drug 
involvement and, as of May 2024, has abstained from any future use of the Drug or illegal 
use of other controlled substances. He wrote that he has dissociated from his associate 
with whom he used the Drug in the past. He also provided the equivalent of a signed 
statement expressing his intent to abstain from all drug involvement and substance 
misuse. He did not include in his “statement of intent” the language of AG ¶ 26( b)(3) 
regarding the consequences of any future drug involvement. AG ¶ 26(b) is only partially 
established because Applicant’s period of abstinence, since May 2024 , is too brief to 
“establish a pattern of abstinence” sufficient to mitigate his prior use of the Drug. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
   
      
   
 
         
      
      
        
      
     
   
  
 
       
         
      
 
         
       
        
            
         
         
     
        
      
        
 
 
 
        
    
 
   
 
      
 
 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole -person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for national security eligibility by considering the totality of the 
applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should 
consider the nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant national security eligibility 
for a security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the above whole-person factors and the potentially disqualifying and 
mitigating conditions in light of all pertinent facts and circumstances surrounding this 
case. I credit Applicant’s honesty in self-reporting his past drug use. However, Applicant’s 
drug use, both before and after he submitted the Questionnaire, constitutes a significant 
failure to comply with federal laws and regulations. Applicant’s age when he recently used 
the Drug evidences a lack of maturity and is inconsistent with the behavior and judgment 
expected of someone with his education and professional responsibilities. His actions 
suggest an attitude that the rules do not apply to him. Applicant has not, at this time, 
mitigated the drug involvement security concerns raised by h is behavior. Overall, the 
record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts as to Applicant’s present suitability 
for national security eligibility and a security clearance. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by ¶ E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline H:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  1.a:   Against Applicant 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            
          
 
                                                  
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion 
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant Applicant national security 
eligibility. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
JOHN BAYARD GLENDON 
Administrative Judge 
7 