 
 
 
 
                                                              
                          
          
           
             
 
  
  
      
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
      
  
  
    
  
    
   
  
 
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-01962 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: George Hawkins, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Matthew Thomas, Esq. 
11/28/2025 
Decision 
HYAMS, Ross D., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant mitigated the alcohol consumption and personal conduct security 
concerns. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Statement  of the Case  
On January 17, 2025, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
(DCSA) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns 
under Guideline G (alcohol consumption) and Guideline E (personal conduct). Applicant 
answered the SOR on March 24, 2025, and requested a hearing before an administrative 
judge. The case was assigned to me on April 24, 2025. 
The hearing convened on April 28 , 2025 . De partment Counsel submitted 
Government Exhibits (GE)  1-14,  which were admitted in evidence without objection.  
Department Counsel  requested that  I  take administrative notice of a portion of  the  
Diagnostic  and Statistical Manual of Ment al Disorders  5
th  Edition (DSM-5)  concerning  
Alcohol  Use Disorder, which I marked as  Administrative  Notice  Exhibit  (AN) 1. Applicant  
submitted  Applicant’s  Exhibits (AE)  A-F, which were admitted without objection.   
 
 
 
     
     
  
    
  
 
 
 
   
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
    
    
  
  
  
   
  
 
        
  
 
I kept the record open for 30 days to allow Applicant to provide information to 
address three new SOR allegations that were added at the start of the hearing . 
Department Counsel submitted GE 15- 16, documentation that he sought after the 
completion of the hearing (HE 4). The information needed to locate these records could 
have been easily obtained, such as through a simple interrogatory, prior to the hearing. 
These two exhibits were admitted without objection. 
Department Counsel also submitted additional argument for consideration (HE 4). 
Applicant objected to the submission (HE 5) . That objection is sustained. Applicant 
submitted AE G, to address the new allegations, which was admitted without objection. 
The completion of this decision was delayed when all administrative judges were 
furloughed from October 1 through November 12, 2025, during a federal government 
shutdown due to a lapse in federal funding. 
Amendment to the SOR  
At the start of the hearing, Department Counsel requested to amend the SOR to 
add ¶¶ 1.f-1.h (HE 3). The allegations state the following: 
1.f. In May of 2015,  after leaving a sports  bar you were arrested for holding a  
firearm during an altercation with another person.  
1.g. In January 2017, after consuming alcohol, you were involved in a domestic  
violence incident that  resulted in the police being called.  
1.h.  In August 2017,  after consuming alcohol, you were involved in a domestic  
violence incident with the mother  of your children.  
The motion to amend the SOR at hearing was granted without objection. (Tr. 8-11) 
Post-Hearing Request to  Amend the SOR  
On May 5, 2025, one week after the hearing had concluded, Department Counsel 
requested to amend the SOR to add a new Guideline E allegation (HE 4) . Paragraph 
E3.1.17 of DoDD 5220.6 does not provide for post-hearing SOR amendments. Paragraph 
E3.1.10 states that the Administrative Judge should conduct all proceedings in a fair, 
timely, and orderly manner . For these reasons, the post -hearing request to amend the 
SOR was denied (HE 6). 
Findings of Fact  
In his Answer, Applicant admitted SOR allegations, ¶¶ 1.a-1.e and 2.a-2.b. His 
admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. Based on my review of the 
pleadings, evidence submitted, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
    
  
    
   
  
    
 
 
 
   
  
 
   
     
       
    
  
    
  
    
      
 
 
 
Applicant is  37  years old.  He has  been employed by a defense contractor  as an  
engineer since 2018.  He  was married from  2017-2019 and has  six minor children.  He  
graduated high school in 2003 and  completed three  years of college classes  from 2005-
2008. He is currently  reenrolled in college to  complete his bachelor’s degree. He served  
on active duty in the Army from  2009- 2018 and was honorably discharged. He was  
deployed twice to combat zones during his service.  (Tr. 18-23; GE 1, 2;  AE D)  
The SOR alleges the following alcohol consumption security concerns: 
SOR ¶ 1.a alleged Applicant consumed alcohol, at times in excess and to the point 
of intoxication, from age 17 to at least November 2022. This allegation was cross alleged 
under Guideline E. While Applicant admitted this allegation in his Answer, he testified that 
he has not consumed alcohol since 2019. After his last alcohol related incident in 
November 2019, he realized he needed to change and made a firm choice to eliminate 
alcohol consumption from his life. (Tr. 49-131) 
Applicant reported w hile serving in the Army, drinking alcohol  was heavily  
encouraged.  As a unit,  they worked hard and partied hard. As he got older , his drinking  
dramatically  reduced  and  was  only done at social events.  He further slowed down drinking  
after 2017.  After the 2019 DUI, he r ealized he had to completely stop  drinking. He has  no 
intent to c onsume alcohol  again.  He  realized he can have a good time without it.  
Abstinence from alcohol  has changed his life and health for the better.  In  the past six 
years  he has been promoted at work  and coaches  sports in his community.  He no longer  
sees  old friends  with  whom he would get in trouble, he lives in a different  state  (State B)  
from his son’s mother,  and  he has a better and more mature group of  friends.  (Tr.  49-
131)   
Post-hearing, Applicant provided ten character letters from friends who stated they 
have not seen him drink alcohol since 2019. (AE G) 
SOR ¶ 1. b alleged Applicant was arrested i n November 2019 and charged with 
Driving Under the Influence (DUI), Failure to Maintain Lane, and Improper Turn. This 
allegation was cross alleged under Guideline E. He reported he was in State A at 
Thanksgiving and went out for the evening with his siblings. He stated he was s topped 
for making an improper left turn and was found to be intoxicated after a field sobriety test. 
Although the case was ultimately dismissed, he admit ted he was drinking and driving. 
After this incident, he knew something had to change. He reported that something clicked, 
and he said to himself , “Never again.” He realized that he had to cut out all alcohol and 
the problems would stop. This was his last alcohol related incident. (Tr. 49-131; GE 5, 10, 
11, 12) 
SOR ¶ 1.c  alleged Applicant was arrested in State A in  February 2017  and charged  
with  DUI  and Failure to Maintain Lane.  This  allegation was cross alleged under Guideline  
E.  He  reported going out for a friend’s birthday  in a city known for  its  nightlife. They  
consumed a lot of alcohol, and he was later pulled over for driving too slow ly.  Although  
3 
 
 
 
   
      
    
 
     
     
   
   
  
  
 
    
   
    
  
     
     
   
   
   
  
 
  
 
   
    
    
 
    
  
  
  
 
  
    
    
   
      
  
  
 
   
     
      
     
the charge was downgraded to reckless driving, he admitted he was drinking and driving. 
He was still in the military at the time, and stated he r eported the arrest to his chain of 
command. (Tr. 49-131; GE 3, 4, 8, 9) 
SOR ¶ 1.d alleged Applicant was arrested in State A in March 2013 and charged 
with DUI and Driving with an Unlawful Alcohol Concentration. This allegation was cross 
alleged under Guideline E. He reported going out for a friend’s birthday and consuming 
alcohol. On the way home, he was stopped at a checkpoint and arrested for DUI. Although 
the charge was downgraded to reckless driving, he admitted he was drinking and driving. 
(Tr. 49-131; GE 3, 4, 6, 7) 
SOR ¶ 1.e alleged Applicant received alcohol treatment at Substance Use 
Disorder Clinical Care (SUDCC), on a military base in State A, from about February 2017 
to about November 2017, for a condition diagnosed as Substance Use Disorder. He 
reported the treatment was in a group setting. The group discussed how alc ohol was a 
coping mechanism to deal with relationship problems and gave alternate options for them 
to use to cope with their feelings. He reported to them that he was an occasional drinker. 
He s uccessfully completed the program. He stated that he was not told that he had 
Substance Use Disorder or Alcohol Use Disorder, and he was not told that he must stop 
drinking. He stated he was told to have a plan if he drank alcohol , so he would not have 
any more DUI arrests. (Tr. 49-131; GE 14; HE 7) 
There is no documentation in the record showing that Applicant was diagnosed 
with Substance Use Disorder, as alleged, or Alcohol Use Disorder. The DSM-5 extract in 
the record regards Alcohol Use Disorder. The D SM-5 states that sustained remission of 
Alcohol Use Disorder occurs when none of the criteria for Alcohol Use Disorder have 
been met for a period of 12 months or longer. (Tr. 49-131; AN 1; AE F) 
SOR ¶ 1.f alleges that in May of 2015, after leaving a sports bar , Applicant was 
arrested for holding a firearm during an altercation with another person. He reported he 
was at a pool hall with a friend during the daytime. They were laughing together while 
leaving, and an intoxicated patron outside of the pool hall thought they were laughing at 
him. The intoxicated man started a confrontation and retrieved a gun from his car. In 
response, Applicant’s friend felt threatened by the man and retrieved a gun from his car. 
Applicant was given the gun by his friend for a short time, before returning it to his friend. 
They were protected behind cover during this time for their defense. The police responded 
to the incident and all three were arrested at the scene. Applicant testified he was not 
drinking and was not intoxicated at that time. Applicant was never charged with anything 
from this incident, and the charges were dropped against his friend. (Tr. 49-131; GE 15, 
16) 
Post-hearing, the government submitted an arrest record of an incident from April 
2015, not May 2015. Applicant ’s name is not on the police record. The name reporting 
area states “expunged”. In the record, Applicant’s testimony is consistent with the 
individual listed as Suspect # 3. It appears that Applicant’s friend is the named party on 
4 
 
 
 
   
   
    
  
 
   
     
  
       
   
  
   
     
 
     
      
    
    
     
     
   
     
 
     
  
  
 
    
    
     
 
    
    
      
     
 
   
   
 
      
      
    
 
the documentation. The report states that everyone had admitted drinking some alcohol 
at the establishment. It does not state that they were al l intoxicated. There was no 
indication that any sobriety testing was done by police during or after this incident. The 
report corroborates Applicant’s testimony. The man who started the altercation stated that 
he saw Applicant’s friend give Applicant the gun at some point during the altercation, and 
Applicant never pointed the gun at him. Witnesses interviewed by police corroborated this 
reporting. Applicant’s friend had a valid permit for the gun. There was no evidence that 
Applicant was intoxicated while holding the gun, and he was never charged for that 
offense. In the Affidavit of Complaint, Applicant’s name is listed. Applicant’s friend is only 
listed on the charging documentation and complaint. The charging document states the 
charges were dismissed. No documentation was presented showing that Applicant was 
ever charged regarding this incident . While he was taken into custody, there was no 
evidence that he had to post bond to be released. His friend was required to post a small 
bond. (Tr. 49-131; GE 14, 15, 16) 
SOR ¶ 1.g alleged Applicant was involved in an alcohol related domestic violence 
incident, in State A in January 2017, where police were called. He reported he was at his 
son’s mother’s house, drinking with her and a family member. They had an on again, off 
again relationship over  a 14-year period. At some point, he went through her phone to 
look at her texts, and he refused to let her do the same with his phone. He reported there 
was an infidelity issue, w ith both parties, in their relationship. When he refused to give 
her his phone and her phone back, he left the residence. She called police and filed a 
false report that he hit her, and stole her phone and vehicle. Applicant denied these 
allegations. He was never arrested for this incident and reported the issue to his 
command. After this incident, Applicant attended the SUDCC program and the Family 
Advocacy Program (FAP) to help prevent future issues between them . (Tr. 49-131; GE 
14) 
SOR ¶ 1.h alleged Applicant was involved in an alcohol related domestic violence 
incident,  in State A in August 2017, with his son’s mother. He reported that he and his 
son’s mother were at a bar and encountered a man she had been dating. When they got 
home, Applicant took her phone to see if she was still communicating with him, and the 
police were called. He stated they had a difficult, up and down relationship over 14 years, 
where both parties participated in infidelity, which caused their emotions to boil over. They 
had good and bad periods of their relationship. There was no physical altercation, and he 
was not arrested for this incident. (Tr. 49-135; GE 14) 
In addition to the cross- allegations referenced above, the SOR alleges the 
following personal conduct security concerns: 
SOR ¶ 2.a alleged that Applicant failed to report the 2019 DUI arrest in ¶ 1.b, as 
required. The only support for this allegation is that a Continuous Evaluation Report was 
entered into the Joint Personnel Adjudication System ( JPAS) by the DoD Consolidated 
Adjudication Facility (CAF) in May 2020, requesting more information about Applicant’s 
5 
 
 
 
 
   
 
    
  
    
  
   
  
 
      
  
  
     
       
    
 
    
    
    
    
    
 
      
    
   
     
     
  
 
 
   
  
    
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
2019 DUI arrest. There is no documentation in the record stating that Applicant failed to 
report the arrest. (GE 13) 
Applicant asserted that he verbally reported his DUI arrest t o his employer’s 
Facility Security Officer (FSO) shortly after the arrest. He stated he had verbally reported 
his past DUI arrests to his command FSO and this was the protocol he followed. He is 
unaware what the FSO did with this information after he reported it to them. He also 
reported this arrest on his 2024 SCA. His employer’s office manager and assistant FSO 
wrote a character letter on Applicant’s behalf in this case. (Tr. 49-135; GE 13; AE B) 
Witness One worked with Applicant in 2018 after he left the military, a nd they 
remain friends. He reported having seen Applicant drink alcohol once when they worked 
together, and has not seen him drink since. After a deployment, he lived with Applicant 
for six months in August 2023-April 2024. He did not witness Applicant drink during that 
time period. He thinks Applicant is reliable and trustworthy and recommends him for a 
security clearance. (Tr. 23-39) 
Witness Two met Applicant at work in about 2019. She worked in the Human 
Resources Department for his employer. She knows him professionally and they interact 
socially as well. T heir children have played together, and he has cared for her children. 
She reported she has never seen him drink alcohol in six years. She thinks Applicant is 
reliable and trustworthy and recommends him for a security clearance (Tr. 39-48; AE B) 
Applicant submitted seven character letters, which endorse him for a security 
clearance and s tate he is reliable, trustworthy, and has good judgement. He also 
submitted profession al certifications, a DD 214, and his resume. He provided two 
academic articles regarding Alcohol Use Disorder, and a Declaration of Intent not to ever 
use alcohol again. Post-hearing, Applicant provided ten character letters from friends who 
stated they have not seen him drink alcohol since 2019. (AE A-G) 
Policies  
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines (AG), which became 
effective on June 8, 2017. 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
    
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
     
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified infor mation. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline G, Alcohol  Consumption  
AG ¶ 21 details the personal conduct security concern: 
Excessive alcohol consumption often leads to the exercise of questionable  
judgment or  the failure to control impulses, and can raise questions about  
an individual’s reliability and trustworthiness.  
I have considered the disqualifying conditions for alcohol consumption under AG 
¶ 22 and the following are applicable: 
(a)  alcohol-r
elated incidents away from work, such as driving while under   
7 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
     
 
the influence,  fighting,  child or spouse abuse,  disturbing the peace,  or other  
incidents of concern,  regardless of the frequency of  the individual’s alcohol  
use or whether the individual has  been diagnosed with alcohol use disorder; 
and  
(c) habitual or binge consumption of alcohol to the point of impaired  
judgm
ent,  regardless of whether the individual is diagnosed with alcohol  
use disorder.  
I have c
onsidered the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 23. The following are 
potentially applicable: 
(a)  so much time has passed, or the behavior  was  so infrequent, or it   
happened under such unusual circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or  
does not cast doubt on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or  
judgment; and  
(b)  the individual acknowledges his or her  patt ern of  maladaptive alcohol  
use, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and has  
demonstrated a clear  and established pattern of modified consumption or  
abstinence in accordance with treatment recommendations.   
AG  ¶¶  23(a)  and (b) apply.  Applicant  completely stopped consuming alcohol  after  
his last DUI  arrest in November  2019.  He has  been successful  in maintaining  complete  
abstinence.  He  is more  mature, moved to  a new state  (State B) , no longer sees old 
friends,  and is focused on work and community activi ties, such as coaching.  There was  
insufficient evidence in the record to find that  Applicant  was diagnosed with Substance  
Use Disorder or Alcohol Use Disorder.  Even if he had been diagnosed,  he met  the DSM-
5 criteria  for sustained remission after 12 months.  In this case, it has been six years  
without alcohol consumption.   
A
pplicant remains committed to continuing his service to the nation through the 
defense industry. He provided sufficient evidence to find that enough time has passed, 
the behavior is unlikely to recur, and these incidents no longer cast doubt on his reliability, 
trustworthiness, and judgment. He provided sufficient evidence to find that he 
acknowledged his pattern of maladaptive alcohol use, took actions to overcome the 
problem, and has demonstrated a clear pattern of modified consumption, in this case 
abstinence. He also signed a sworn statement of intent not to consume alcohol again. 
The alcohol consumption security concerns are mitigated. 
Guideline E, Personal Conduct  
AG ¶ 15 details the personal conduct security concern: 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
    
   
  
 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to 
cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes 
I have considered the disqualifying conditions under AG ¶ 16 and the following are 
potentially applicable: 
(b) deliberately providing false or misleading information; or concealing or omitting  
inf
ormation, concerning relevant facts to an employer, investigator,  security official,  
competent medical or mental health professional involved in making a  
recommendation  relevant to a national security eligibility determination, or other  
official government  representative;  and  
(c) credible adverse information in several adjudicative issue areas that is not  
suf
ficient  for an adverse determination under any other single guideline, but which,  
when  considered as a whole, supports a whole- person assessment of  
questionable judgment,  untrustworthiness, unreliability, lack of candor,  
unwillingness to comply with rules and r  egulations, or other  characteristics  
indicating that the individual may not properly  safeguard classified or sensitive  
information.  
I have c
onsidered the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 17. The following is 
potentially applicable: 
(c)  the offense is so minor, or so  m uch time has passed, or the behavior is  
so infrequent,  or it happened under such unique circumstances that it is  
unlikely to recur and does not  cast doubt on the individual's reliability,  
trustworthiness, or good judgment; and  
(d) the individual has  ack nowledged the behavior and obtained counseling  
to change the beha vior or taken other positive steps to alleviate the 
stressors, circumstances,  or factors  that  contributed to untrustworthy,  
unreliable, or other inappropriate behavior, and such behav ior is unlikely to  
recur.  
Appli
cant has refuted the Guideline E allegation in ¶ 2.a that he failed to report his 
2019 DUI arrest, as required, since he credibly testified that he verbally reported the arrest 
to his employer’s FSO. 
SOR ¶  2.b  cross-alleged the alcohol consumption allegations  in  ¶¶  1.a, 1.b, 1.c,  
and 1.d.  I found for Applicant  on these allegations  under Guideline G.  AG ¶¶ 17(c) and 
(d) apply.  His past   alcohol consumption caused a lapse in judgement that led to the DUI  
9 
 
 
 
     
   
    
    
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
 
 
      
 
 
 
   
    
    
 
   
   
  
    
 
   
 
 
   
 
    
 
arrests. In November 2019, Applicant determined that his life was incompatible with 
alcohol consumption and has completely abstained since that time. Enough time has 
passed and it happened under such unique circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and 
does not cast doubt on Applicant’s reliability, trustworthiness, and judgment . Applicant 
has taken other positive steps to alleviate the stressors, circumstances, or factors that 
contributed to untrustworthy, unreliable, or other inappropriate behavior, and such 
behavior is unlikely to recur. The personal conduct security concerns are mitigated. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3)  the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8)  the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. I considered the potentially 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances 
surrounding this case. I have considered the character letters and Applicant’s certificates 
and professional documentation. I have incorporated my comments under Guidelines G 
and E in my whole-person analysis. 
Overall, the record evidence leaves me without questions and doubts about 
Applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance. I conclude that Applicant has mitigated the 
alcohol consumption and personal conduct security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:  FOR  APPLICANT  
S
ubparagraphs  1.a-1.h :  For  Applicant  
10 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
Paragraph 2,  Guideline E:   FOR  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 2.a-2.b:    For  Applicant  
Concl
usion 
It is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant a security 
clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Ross D. Hyams 
Administrative Judge 
11 