 
 
  
  
        
         
           
             
 
           
   
  
                 
   
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
       
       
 
 
  
        
     
     
     
      
      
     
   
  
       
  
 
         
   
  
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
-..:.:..w11-...-. "2. 0 0 
"' > ,.. 
~ 
"'-
________________ 
________________ 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-01153 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Nicole A. Smith, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Samir Nakhleh, Esq. 
03/31/2025 
Revised Decision 
HARVEY, Mark, Administrative Judge: 
Security concerns arising under Guidelines H (drug involvement and substance 
misuse) and E (personal conduct) are not mitigated. Eligibility for access to classified 
information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On November 2, 2023, Applicant completed and signed an Electronic 
Questionnaires for Investigations Processing (e -QIP) or security clearance application 
(SCA). (Government Exhibit (GE) 1) On August 23, 2024, the Defense 
Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) issued a statement of reasons (SOR) 
to Applicant. The SOR was issued under Executive O rder (Exec. Or.) 10865, 
Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry, February 20, 1960; Department of 
Defense ( DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance 
Review Program (Directive), January 2, 1992; and Security Executive Agent Directive 4, 
establishing in Appendix A the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining 
Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position 
(AGs), effective June 8, 2017. (Hearing Exhibit (HE) 2) 
The SOR detailed reasons why the DCSA did not find under the Directive that it is 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant or continue a security 
 
 
          
     
         
           
   
 
             
        
       
        
          
      
       
   
 
       
          
 
 
 
 
         
        
  
 
      
         
          
        
              
       
           
     
 
 
 
      
     
      
     
           
 
 
clearance for Applicant and recommended referral to an administrative judge to determine 
whether a clearance should be granted, continued, denied, or revoked. Specifically, the 
SOR set forth security concerns arising under Guidelines H and E. (HE 2) On September 
24, 2024, Applicant provided a response to the SOR and requested a hearing. (HE 3) On 
October 30, 2024, Department Counsel was ready to proceed. 
On November 4, 2024, the case was assigned to me. On November 8, 2024, the 
Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) scheduled the case for hearing on 
December 9, 2024. (HE 1) The hearing was held as scheduled, using the Microsoft Teams 
video teleconfe rence system. The Government provided two exhibits and Applicant 
provided five exhibits. (Tr. 12-15; GE 1-GE 2; Applicant Exhibits (AE) K-AE O) Applicant’s 
exhibits AE A-AE J were provided as part of the SOR response. (Transcript (Tr.) 8-9) All 
exhibits were admitted into evidence. (Tr. 13, 15) On December 23, 2024, DOHA received 
the transcript of the hearing. There were no post-hearing exhibits. (Tr. 58) 
The decision issued on March 26, 2025, in this case inadvertently contained 
information from another case. The decision issued on March 26, 2025, is rescinded and 
replaced with this decision. 
Some  details were   excluded  to  protect Applicant’s right to  privacy. Specific   
information is available in the cited exhibits and transcript.  
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 2.b 
with clarifications. He also provided extenuating and mitigating information. His 
admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Additional findings follow.  
Applicant is a 23-year-old part-time employee of a DOD contractor. (Tr. 16, 20-21) 
He is engaged to be married, and he does not have any children. (Tr. 16) In 2022, he 
received an associate degree. (Tr. 18; AE F) At the time of Applicant’s hearing, he 
expected to receive a bachelor’s degree in computer engineering on December 21, 2024. 
(Tr. 17-18) He has been on the dean’s list at his university. (Tr. 20; AE D) He held an 
interim secret clearance from December of 2023 to around August of 2024. (Tr. 23) He 
had access to controlled unclassified information (CUI), and he did not have access to 
classified information. (Tr. 22 -24) His resume provides additional information about his 
professional background. (AE E) 
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges from about July 2023 to about January 2024, Applicant used 
mushrooms (psilocybin) on various occasions. He used mushrooms at his apartment with 
friends four times over this six-month period while working for the government contractor. 
(Tr. 24, 26) He used mushrooms because “My friends asked me if I wanted to do it and I 
said sure. It’s college, I wanted to try something new and I wanted to have some fun with 
my friends just hanging out and that's what they asked. And I said sure.” (Tr. 40) 
2 
 
 
        
     
    
  
 
 
 
     
      
      
         
         
     
       
         
          
  
 
        
  
 
 
          
      
          
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
In April 2023, he had a drug test before beginning his employment with the 
government contractor; however, the purpose of the government contractor’s drug testing 
to Applicant was unclear. (Tr. 24 -25, 38-39) He conceded he would “probably not” have 
been hired it he tested positive for an illegal drug. (Tr. 39) Applicant said: 
But from  my understanding, and  from  really  the  lack of what I was told it 
didn’t really seem  like  it was too  cared  about.  I didn’t  have, you  know [a  
follow-up  drug  test]  nothing  like  that.  It seemed  like  it was more of,  you  
know, if you  cause  a  workplace  accident,  we’re  going  to  drug  test  you  and  
things of that nature. (Tr. 25)  
Applicant acknowledged  that the  government contractor would not want employees to  
use  drugs  while working; however,  he  said  he  was unsure “if they  care  about what [he  did  
on his] own time.” (Tr. 39)  
Applicant denied that his employer provided any training or education about using 
illegal drugs being prohibited. (Tr. 25) He does not have any illegal drugs at his residence. 
(Tr. 27) He denied using any illegal drugs before July of 2023. (Tr. 38) He avoids people 
who might use illegal drugs and places where illegal drugs might be used. (Tr. 27-28) He 
provided a statement of his intention to abstain from all drug involvement and substance 
misuse, acknowledging that any future involvement or misuse is groun ds for revocation 
of national security eligibility. (Tr. 26; AE A) On September 17, 2024, he completed an 
online class on illegal drugs. (Tr. 27; AE B) After he completed his SCA, he did not believe 
using illegal drugs was a problem because he was not an addict, and he did not believe 
he would give in to an extortion attempt. (Tr. 43, 45) 
On November 22, 2024, Applicant received a drug test, which was negative for 
illegal substances. (Tr. 26; AE K) 
Personal Conduct  
SOR ¶ 2.a alleges that Applicant’s November 2, 2023 SCA asked in the last seven 
years have you illegally used any drugs or controlled substances? Applicant answered, 
“No,” to this question, and he did not disclose his involvement with mushrooms 
(psilocybin) around July 2023. 
Applicant admitted that his answer on his November 2, 2023 SCA was incorrect. 
(Tr. 29-30) For his omission on his SCA, he said: 
For the  e-QIP  I had  only used  once  before that and  that was in the  summer.  
I had  just  genuinely forgotten  about  it.  And  you  only do  something  once  how 
many times does that happen  that you  just forget.  It  wasn’t anything  crazy,  
it was just  me  and  a  few friends. You  know, we  hangout all  the  time  so  I just  
forgot about the instance.  
* * * 
3 
 
 
 
  
 
    
      
           
       
           
           
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No,  I did not deliberately do  it. I forgot.  I didn't mean, if I would  have  
remembered  I would have  answered  yes to  it. But I had  forgotten  to  do  it. I 
have  forgotten  about the  instance  and  didn’t answer it correctly. (Tr. 31-32)  
He said he had a “terrible memory,” and he forgets things. (Tr. 41) 
On February 5, 2024, an Office of Personnel Management (OPM) investigator 
interviewed Applicant about his history of illegal drug use. (Tr. 30; GE 2) The OPM report 
states, “Subject was asked if in the last seven years did subject use illegal drugs. Subject 
responded, no.” On February 6, 2024, Applicant sent a text to the OPM investigator 
indicating he wanted to disclose additional information. (Tr. 30; AE C) On February 6, 
2024, he admitted that he used mushrooms once or twice over the summer. (GE 2) He 
said he omitted his mushroom use because he was nervous, and he forgot about using 
mushrooms. (Tr. 32, 46; GE 2) 
Applicant concluded his hearing stating: 
I realized  I made  a  mistake. I’m  not  proud  of  it, I'm  not happy about it. I’m   
not  here  to  lie  anymore. I  think that’s  been  pretty obvious  today. I  feel like  
I’ve been  pretty truthful on  my end  on what’s happened.  
I made the mistake, I  rectified  the mistake, I’ve  moved on.  That’s not  who I  
am anymore. And I’ve been really fighting this entire time to  prove that that  
person  that made  those  mistakes  isn’t me.  You  know, I’m  trying  to  be, I'm  
doing my best to  be  better.   
Obviously  there are mistakes  that I still  make  in my daily life. Not with  drugs.  
I’m  never going  to  do  that again.  I know that was a  mistake  and  I’m  never  
going to  be  doing that again.  
I also realize  I need  to  ask for help when  things like  this happen.  You  know,  
I don’t understand  a  question  on  a  questionnaire  or I don’t understand   
something  about  reporting  I need  to  ask  that  question. And  I  need  to  find  
the  appropriate  person to ask the  question to.   
I have  learned  from  my  mistakes I am  not  that  same  person. And  that’s all  I  
want to  really get across is I can  be  trusted. I’m  not going   to  be  doing  
anything to put secrets of this country at risk. (Tr. 48-49)  
Character Statements  
Applicant’s fiancée, high  school wrestling  coach, roommate, supervisor, and   
friends provided  character statements and  a  performance  evaluation. (Tr. 35-37; AE  G;  
AE  H;  AE  I; AE  L;  AE  O) The  general  sense  of their  statements  is that  Applicant  is  
responsible, diligent, loyal, conscientious, helpful, dedicated, mature, and passionate.  
4 
 
 
 
       
       
        
      
        
       
       
        
        
   
 
       
        
      
           
      
      
    
 
         
   
         
     
     
       
           
        
           
    
        
     
  
 
   
   
        
        
       
       
       
          
 
 
     
         
Policies  
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion of the Executive 
Branch in regulating access to information pertaining to national security emphasizing, 
“no one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 
518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual 
is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The President 
has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicant’s eligibility for 
access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly consistent with the 
national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation 
about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Clearance 
decisions must be “in terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a 
determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 § 7. 
Thus, nothing in this decision should be construed to suggest that it is based, in whole or 
in part, on any express or implied determination about applicant’s allegiance, loyalty, or 
patriotism. It is merely an indication the applicant has not met the strict guidelines the 
President, Secretary of Defense, and Director of National In telligence have established 
for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guideline s 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 95 -0611 at 2 
(App. Bd. May 2, 1996). 
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition by substantial 
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
          
  
 
 
            
 
 
 
 
      
    
       
  
 
  
 
 
facts.  Directive ¶  E3.1.15.  An  applicant “has the  ultimate  burden  of demonstrating  that  it  
is clearly consistent  with  the  national interest to  grant or continue  his [or her] security  
clearance.” ISCR   Case  No.  01-20700  at 3  (App. Bd. Dec.  19, 2002). The  burden  of  
disproving  a  mitigating  condition  never shifts to  the  Government.  See  ISCR  Case  No.  02-
31154  at 5  (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance  determinations should  err, if 
they must, on the side  of denials.” Egan, 484  U.S. at 531; see  AG ¶  2(b).   
Analysis  
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
AG ¶ 24 provides the security concern arising from drug involvement and 
substance misuse stating: 
The  illegal use  of controlled  substances,  to  include  the  misuse  of  
prescription  and  non-prescription  drugs, and  the  use  of other substances  
that cause  physical or mental impairment  or are used  in a  manner  
inconsistent with  their  intended  purpose  can  raise  questions about an  
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may  
lead  to  physical or psychological  impairment and  because  it  raises questions  
about a  person’s ability or willingness to  comply with  laws, rules, and   
regulations. Controlled  substance  means any “controlled  substance” as   
defined  in 21  U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the  generic term  adopted  in  
this guideline  to  describe any of the behaviors listed above.  
AG ¶ 25 provides conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying in this case: 
(a)  any substance  misuse  (see above  definition); and  
(c)  illegal possession  of a  controlled  substance, including  cultivation,  
processing, manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession  of  
drug paraphernalia.  
From about July 2023 to about January 2024, Applicant used mushrooms 
(psilocybin) four times at his apartment with friends. AG ¶¶ 25(a) and 25(c) are 
established. Additional discussion of the disqualifying conditions is in the mitigation 
section, infra. 
AG ¶ 26 lists four conditions that could mitigate security concerns: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or happened  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur or does  not cast  doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;  
(b) the  individual acknowledges his or her drug  involvement and  substance  
misuse,  provides evidence  of actions taken  to  overcome  this problem, and  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
        
      
  
 
has established  a  pattern of  abstinence, including, but not limited  to: (1)  
disassociation  from  drug-using  associates and  contacts; (2) changing  or  
avoiding  the  environment where  drugs  were used;  and  (3) providing  a  
signed  statement of intent to  abstain from  all  drug  involvement and  
substance  misuse, acknowledging  that any future involvement or misuse  is 
grounds for revocation  of national security eligibility;  
(c)  abuse  of prescription  drugs was after a  severe or prolonged  illness 
during  which  these  drugs were  prescribed, and  abuse  has since  ended; and  
(d) satisfactory completion  of a  prescribed  drug  treatment program,  
including,  but  not limited  to,  rehabilitation  and  aftercare  requirements,  
without recurrence  of  abuse, and  a  favorable  prognosis by a  duly qualified  
medical professional.  
In  ISCR  Case  No.  10-04641  at 4  (App. Bd. Sept.  24, 2013),  the  DOHA  Appeal  
Board concisely explained  Applicant’s responsibility for proving   the  applicability of   
mitigating conditions as follows:  
Once  a  concern arises regarding   an  Applicant’s  security  clearance  
eligibility,  there is a  strong  presumption  against the  grant or maintenance  of  
a  security clearance. See  Dorfmont  v.  Brown, 913  F.  2d  1399,  1401  (9th  
Cir. 1990), cert.  denied,  499  U.S.  905  (1991).  After the  Government  
presents  evidence  raising  security concerns, the  burden  shifts  to  the  
applicant to rebut or mitigate those concerns. See  Directive ¶ E3.1.15. The  
standard applicable in  security clearance  decisions is that articulated  in  
Egan, supra. “Any  doubt concerning  personnel being  considered  for  access  
to  classified  information  will  be  resolved  in  favor of  the  national security.” 
Directive, Enclosure 2, [App. A] ¶  2(b).   
Possession  of Schedules I,  II, and  III  controlled  substances is a  federal criminal  
offense  (Schedule  III  substances  may be  possessed  with  a  lawful prescription). Schedules  
I,  II, III,  IV, and  V, as referred  to  in the  Controlled  Substances Act,  are contained  in 21  
U.S.C. §  812(c). Psilocybin is a  Schedule I controlled substance.  
Applicant knowingly possessed and used mushrooms or psilocybin four times from 
about July 2023 to about January 2024. He said he refrained from illegal drug use after 
January 2024. He expressed his intention not to use illegal drugs in the future. He avoids 
people that use illegal drugs and places where illegal drugs are used. 
None  of the  mitigating  conditions fully apply.  Applicant falsified  his  November 2,  
2023  SCA,  which  is damaging  to  his credibility and  shows a  lack of rehabilitation. Applicant  
might decide  to  use  illegal drugs in the  future. I am  not convinced  Applicant’s psilocybin  
use  “happened  under such  circumstances that it is unlikely to  recur  [and] does not cast   
doubt on  his current reliability, trustworthiness, [and] good judgment.” A concern remains  
that he will use psilocybin in the future. More  time without illegal drug use is necessary to  
fully mitigate  Guideline H security concerns.  
7 
 
 
 
   
 
 
        
   
  
 
 
        
       
         
  
 
 
 
   
       
   
 
        
 
Personal Conduct  
AG ¶ 15 explains why personal conduct is a security concern stating: 
Conduct involving  questionable judgment, lack of candor,  dishonesty,  or  
unwillingness to  comply with  rules and  regulations can  raise  questions  
about an  individual’s reliability, trustworthiness and   ability to   protect  
classified  information. Of  special interest  is any failure  to  provide  truthful  
and  candid answers during  the  security clearance  process or any  other 
failure to cooperate with the security clearance process. . . .  
AG ¶ 16 provides one personal conduct condition that could raise a security 
concern and may be disqualifying in relation to his provision of inaccurate information on 
his SCA: 
(a) deliberate  omission, concealment,  or falsification  of relevant facts from  
any personnel  security questionnaire, personal history statement,  or similar  
form  used  to  conduct investigations,  determine  employment qualifications,  
award  benefits or status, determine  national security eligibility or 
trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities.   
Applicant denied that he possessed and used illegal drugs on his November 2, 
2023 SCA. He knowingly possessed and used mushrooms or psilocybin around July 
2023. Applicant said he did not deliberately and intentionally provide false information in 
his SCA because he forgot that he used mushrooms or psilocybin. 
“Applicant’s statements about his intent   and  state  of  mind  when  he  executed  his  
Security Clearance  Application  were  relevant  evidence,  but  they [are] not  binding  on  the  
Administrative Judge.”  ISCR  Case  No. 04-09488  at  2  (App. Bd.  Nov. 29, 2006) (citation  
omitted). In  ADP Case  No.  17-03932  at 3  (App. Bd. Feb. 14, 2019), the  Appeal Board  
recognized the importance of circumstantial evidence of intent in falsification cases:  
When  evaluating  the  deliberate  nature  of an  alleged  falsification, a  Judge  
should  consider the  applicant’s mens  rea  in  light of  the  entirety of the  record 
evidence. See, e.g., ADP Case  No.  15-07979  at 5  (App. Bd. May 30,  2017).  
As a  practical matter, a  finding  regarding  an  applicant’s intent or state  of  
mind  may not always be  based  on  an  applicant’s statements,  but rather may  
rely on circumstantial evidence. Id.  
AG 16(a) is established. I do not believe Applicant forgot about using psilocybin or 
mushrooms before he completed his SCA. He deliberately and intentionally provided false 
information on his SCA. 
AG ¶ 17 lists the conditions that could mitigate personal conduct security concerns: 
(a) the  individual made  prompt,  good-faith  efforts to  correct the  omission,  
concealment,  or falsification  before being confronted with the facts;  
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            
           
     
         
    
         
           
      
 
 
 
 
(b) the  refusal or failure  to  cooperate, omission, or concealment was caused  
or significantly contributed to  by advice  of  legal counsel or of a  person  with  
professional responsibilities for  advising  or instructing  the  individual  
specifically concerning  security processes. Upon  being  made  aware of the  
requirement  to  cooperate  or provide  the  information,  the  individual 
cooperated fully and truthfully;  
(c)  the  offense  is so  minor, or so  much  time  has passed, or the  behavior is 
so  infrequent, or it happened  under such  unique  circumstances that it is 
unlikely to  recur and  does  not  cast  doubt on  the  individual's reliability,  
trustworthiness, or good judgment;  
(d) the  individual has acknowledged  the  behavior and  obtained  counseling  
to  change  the  behavior or taken  other positive steps to  alleviate  the  
stressors, circumstances, or  factors that  contributed  to  untrustworthy, 
unreliable, or other inappropriate behavior, and such  behavior is unlikely to  
recur;  
(e) the  individual has taken  positive  steps to  reduce  or eliminate  vulnerability 
to exploitation, manipulation, or duress; and  
(f)  the  information  was unsubstantiated  or from  a  source of questionable  
reliability.  
None of the mitigating conditions fully apply. Applicant was not honest when he 
said in his SCA that he had not possessed or used illegal drugs in the previous seven 
years. His subsequent false denial of his drug involvement during his OPM interview on 
February 5, 2024, was mitigated when he disclosed his involvement with psilocybin or 
mushrooms on February 6, 2024. Applicant’s ultimate disclosure of his illegal drug 
possession and use to the OPM investigator and at his hearing is praiseworthy; however, 
his false claim at his hearing that he forgot he used mushrooms at the time he completed 
his SCA undermines this mitigation. Personal conduct security concerns are not 
mitigated. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the  whole-person  concept,  the  administrative judge  must  evaluate  an  
applicant’s eligibility for a  security clearance  by considering  the  totality of the  applicant’s  
conduct and  all  the  circumstances. The  administrative judge  should consider the  nine  
adjudicative process factors listed  at AG ¶  2(d):  
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  
and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct;  
9 
 
 
  
       
        
        
        
  
 
        
     
       
          
     
       
  
 
     
      
       
            
        
           
    
 
         
        
        
     
          
  
 
 
      
             
      
         
       
       
  
 
 
 
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), “[t]he ultimate determination” of whether to grant a security 
clearance “must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines” and the whole-person concept. M y comments under Guideline H are 
incorporated in my whole -person analysis. Some of the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) were 
addressed under that guideline but some warrant additional comment. 
Applicant is a 23 -year-old part-time employee of a DOD contractor. In 2022, he 
received an associate degree. At his hearing, he said he expects to receive a bachelor’s 
degree in computer engineering on December 21, 2024. He has been on the dean’s list 
at his university. He held an interim secret clearance from December of 2023 to around 
August of 2024. He admitted his possession and use of psilocybin or mushrooms during 
his February 6, 2024 OPM interview and at his hearing. He promised not to use illegal 
drugs in the future. 
The evidence against reinstatement of Applicant’s security clearance is more 
persuasive. Applicant knowingly possessed and used mushrooms or psilocybin four times 
from about July 2023 to about January 2024. He lied about his history of drug involvement 
on his November 2, 2023 SCA and again during his February 5, 2024 OPM interview. His 
decisions to repeatedly possess and use mushrooms or psilocybin, which is illegal under 
federal law, and then lie about his illegal drug use, are indications he lacks the qu alities 
expected of those with access to national secrets. 
It is well settled that once a concern arises regarding an applicant’s security 
clearance eligibility, there is a strong presumption against granting a security clearance. 
See Dorfmont, 913 F. 2d at 1401. “[A] favorable clearance decision means that the record 
discloses no basis for doubt about an applicant’s eligibility for access to classified 
information.” ISCR Case No. 18-02085 at 7 (App. Bd. Jan. 3, 2020) (citing ISCR Case 
No. 12-00270 at 3 (App. Bd. Jan. 17, 2014)). 
I have  carefully applied  the  law, as set forth  in Egan, Exec. Or. 10865,  the  Directive,  
the  AGs,  and  the  Appeal Board’s  jurisprudence  to  the  facts and  circumstances in  the  
context of  the  whole person. Applicant failed  to  mitigate  drug  involvement and  substance  
misuse  and personal conduct security concerns.   
This decision should not be construed as a determination that Applicant cannot or 
will not attain the state of true reform and rehabilitation necessary to be eligible for a 
security clearance. The determination of an individual’s eligibility and suitability for a 
security clearance is not a once in a lifetime occurrence, but is based on applying the 
factors, both disqualifying and mitigating, to the evidence presented. Under his current 
circumstances, a clearance is not warranted. In the future, he may well demonstrate 
persuasive evidence of his security worthiness. 
10 
 
 
 
 
   
  
    
 
    
 
    
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
______________________ 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline H:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  1.a:  Against Applicant 
Paragraph  2, Guideline E:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  2.a:  Against Applicant 
Conclusion  
Considering  all of  the  circumstances presented  by  the  record in  this case,  it is not  
clearly consistent  with  the  interests  of  national security  to  grant or continue  Applicant’s  
eligibility for access to  classified  information. Eligibility for access to  classified  information 
is denied.  
Mark Harvey 
Administrative Judge 
11 