 
 
 
 
 
  
 
                
      
 
 
 
 
   
   
         
    
    
                                                                                                                             
                                       
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
      
    
 
     
 
  
 
      
  
    
 
       
     
     
     
   
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 24-01632 
Appearances  
For Government: Sakeena Farhath, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
05/20/2025 
Decision 
Curry, Marc E., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant presented insufficient evidence of what progress he has made to resolve 
his delinquent income tax debts. Under these circumstances, I conclude Applicant has 
failed to mitigate the financial considerations security concerns. H is application for a 
security clearance is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On September 27, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
Consolidated Adjudications Services (DCSA CAS) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) 
to Applicant detailing sec urity concerns under Guidelines F , financial considerations, 
explaining why it was unable to find it clearly consistent with interests of national security 
to grant security clearance eligibility. The DCSA CAS took the action under Executive 
Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 
1960), as amended; Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial 
Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended 
(Directive); and the National Adjudicative Guidelines (AG) effective for any adjudication 
1 
 
 
 
 
      
      
     
   
       
   
 
     
     
       
   
 
  
     
    
   
 
     
    
   
     
      
      
 
 
 
 
made on or after June 8, 2017. On November 1, 2024, Applicant answered the SOR , 
admitting the allegations and requesting a decision based on the evidence in the file rather 
than a hearing. On November 26, 2024, Department Counsel prepared a File of Relevant 
Material (FORM), setting forth the Government’s arguments against Applicant’s security 
clearance worthiness. The FORM contains four attachments, identified as Item 1 through 
Item 4. 
Applicant received a copy of the FORM on January 24, 2025. He was given 30 
days to file a response. He did not file a response, whereupon the case was assigned to 
me on April 2, 2025. After receiving the FORM, I admitted Items 1 through 4 into the 
record. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 59-year-old man with five children. He is currently separated from 
his wife. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2013. He has been working for a defense 
contractor as a facility manager since 2023. (Item 3 at 9) 
At the time of the issuance of the SOR, Applicant had failed to timely file his federal 
and state income tax returns for the 2019 tax year. (GE 3, 4) Applicant admits to the 
allegations, and he states that he is “taking the steps” to file the outstanding returns. (Item 
2 at 3) He attributes his difficulties with filing his tax returns to being preoccupied with 
overseeing the car e for his ailing mother who required round- the-clock care, and his 
marital breakdown. (Item 4 at 3) He presented no evidence of what, if any, steps he has 
taken to begin ameliorating his financial problems. 
Policies  
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion the Executive  
Branch has in regulating access to information pertaining to national security,  
emphasizing that “no  one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.”  Department of the Navy  
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518,  528 (1988). When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for  a security  
clearance, the administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition  
to brief introductory explanations  for each guideline, the adjudicative guideli nes list  
potentially  disqualifying conditions  and  mitigating conditions, which are required to be  
considered in evaluating an applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information.  
These guidelines  are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities  of  
human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the factors listed in the  
adjudicative process.  The administrative judge’s overall  adjudicative goal is a fair,  
impartial,  and commonsense dec ision. According to AG ¶  2(a), the entire process is a  
conscientious scrutiny of  variables known as the “whole- person  concept.” The  
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person,  
past and pr esent, favorable and unfavorable,  in making a decision.  
2 
 
 
 
 
 
   
      
 
    
  
    
    
   
 
 
  
      
   
 
 
 
 
     
   
   
  
   
 
     
   
    
  
      
 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 1(d) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present 
evidence to establish controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, 
the applicant is responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, 
explain, extenuate, or mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department 
Counsel. . ..” The applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable 
security decision. 
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must consider the 
totality of an applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances in light of the nine 
adjudicative process factors in AG ¶ 2(d). They are as follows: 
(1) the nature, extent,  and s
 eriousness of the conduct;  
(2) the circumstances  s urrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation;   
(3) the frequency  and  recency  of the conduct;   
(4) the individual’s  age  and maturity  at the time of  the conduct;   
(5) the extent to which participation is voluntary;   
(6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation and other  per manent  
behavioral changes;   
(7) the motivation for the conduct;   
(8) the potential  f or pressure, coercion,  exploitation, or duress; and  
(9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Analysis  
Gu
ideline  F:  Financial Considerations  
The sec
urity concern under this Guideline states, “failure to live within one’s 
means, satisfy debts, and meet financial obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack 
of judgment, or unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified 
or sensitive information.” (AG ¶ 18) 
Applicant’s failure to file his 2019 federal and state income tax returns triggers the 
application of AG ¶ 19(f), “failure to file or fraudulently filing annual federal, state, or local 
income tax returns or failure to pay annual federal, state, or local income tax, as required.” 
The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 are potentially applicable: 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
    
      
     
  
       
   
 
 
   
      
 
 
 
     
    
 
    
 
    
     
 
 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
und
er such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good judgment;  
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial  pr oblem were largely beyond  
the person’s control  (e.g., loss of employment, a business  downturn,  
unexpected medical emergency, a death,  divorce, or separation, clear  
victimization by  predatory  lending pract ices, or identity theft),  and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;   
(c) the individual  has  received or is receiving financial counseling for the  
problem from  a legitimate and credible source, such as a non- profit credit  
counseling service,  and there are clear indications that the problem is being  
resolved or is under control;  
(g) the individual has  m ade arrangements with the appropriate tax authority  
to file or  pay the amount owed and is in compliance with those  
arrangements.  
Appli
cant attributed his failure to file his 2019 federal and state income tax returns 
to his marital separation and the time he was compelled to spend caring for his severely 
disabled mother. Although he stated that he was taking steps to file the tax returns , he 
provided no evidence of any plan. Consequently, although the circumstances with his 
marriage and his mother’s declining health are certainly circumstances beyond his 
control, the absence of any proof that he is acting responsibly under the circumstances 
renders the mitigating conditions inapplicable. 
Whole-Person Concept  
I considered the whole-person concept factors in my analysis of the disqualifying 
and mitigating conditions, discussed above, and they do not warrant a favorable 
conclusion. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  Guideline F:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a  –  1.b:   Against Applicant 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
      
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
_____________________ 
C
onclusion  
I
n light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant or continue Applicant ’s 
eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Marc E. Curry 
Administrative Judge 
5 