 
 
 
                                                              
 
 
                                      
                      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE                        
    DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS  
                                 
     
           
             
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
       
   
         
          
      
 
 
______________ 
______________ 
In  the  matter of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR  Case No.  24-00976  
  )    
 )  
Applicant for Security Clearance  )  
Appearances  
For Government: Aubrey De Angelis, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
04/17/2025 
Decision  
CEFOLA, Richard A., Administrative Judge: 
Statement  of the Case  
On October 24, 2024 , in accordance with DoD Directive 5220.6, as amended 
(Directive), the Department of Defense issued Applicant a Statement of Reasons (SOR) 
alleging facts that raise security concerns under Guideline F (Financial Considerations). 
The SOR further informed Applicant that, based on information available to the 
government, DoD adjudicators could not make the preliminary affirmative finding it is 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue Applicant’s security 
clearance. 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
       
     
        
         
           
     
       
   
 
       
        
       
 
 
 
     
           
  
 
       
   
 
 
 
  
 
          
      
         
         
  
 
 
Applicant answered the SOR soon thereafter, and requested a hearing before an 
administrative judge. (Answer.) The case was assigned to me on February 10, 2025. The 
Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a notice of hearing on February 
10, 2025, scheduling the hearing for March 4, 2025. T he hearing was convened as 
scheduled. The Government offered Exhibits (GXs) 1 through 3, which were admitted into 
evidence. Applicant testified on his own behalf. The record was left open until April 4, 
2025, for receipt of additional documentation. Applicant offered three documents, which I 
marked Applicant’s Exhibits (AppXs) A through C, and admitted into evidence. DOHA 
received the transcript of the hearing (TR) on March 17, 2025. 
At the hearing, the Government amended the SOR, in concert with Applicant’s 
testimony: 1.c. “You are indebted to the Federal Government for delinquent taxes, in the 
approximate amount of $4,300, for Tax Years 2021 through 2023.” An allegation which 
Applicant admits. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant admitted to the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, through 1.c. After a thorough 
and careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings 
of fact. 
Applicant is a 45 -year-old employee of a defense contractor. He is married, and 
has no children. (TR at page 11 lines 21~23, and GX 1 at pages 5, 17 and 19.) 
Guideline F - Financial Considerations  
1.a.  Applicant  admits  that  he  and  his  wife  failed  to  file their  Federal income  tax  
returns in  a  timely manner for tax  years 2021  and  2022.  They experienced  “several losses  
around  that  time  - - deaths  in April and  May .  . . sidetracked  with  family issues.”  He  has  
now submitted  post-hearing  documentation  showing  those  taxes have  been  filed. (TR at  
page  10  line  19  to  page  11  line  5, at page  11  line  24  to  page  14  line  20, and  AppXs A  and  
B.) This allegation is found for Applicant. 
1,b, Applicant admits that he and his wife failed to file their State income tax returns 
in a timely manner for tax years 2021 and 2022. (TR at page 20 lines 1~17.) He has 
submitted nothing further regarding this allegation. (Based on the available record , it 
cannot be assumed Applicant filed his State income tax returns in conjunction with his 
Federal income tax returns.)  This allegation is found against Applicant. 
1.c.  Applicant admits  that he  is indebted  to  the  Federal Government  for delinquent  
taxes, in the  approximate  amount of $4,300,  for Tax Years 2021  through 2023. He avers  
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
        
 
 
 
       
        
      
           
 
 
          
     
          
     
      
       
            
 
 
      
    
         
       
 
 
        
         
       
      
    
 
            
         
     
             
     
         
         
that he is making monthly payments of $200 towards this tax lien, but has submitted 
nothing further in this regard. (TR at page 14 line 21 to page 17 line 24.) This allegation 
is found against Applicant. 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s national security eligibility, the administrative judge 
must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief introductory 
explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially disqualifying 
conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an applicant’s 
national security eligibility. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The administrative 
judge’s over arching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and common sense decision. 
According to AG ¶ 2(a ), the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number o f 
variables known as the whole -person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical , and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR . Directive ¶ E3.1.15 states the “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel , and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable clearance decision.” 
A person who applies for access to classified information seeks to enter into a 
fiduciary relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
 
     
   
            
   
      
          
     
    
    
        
       
  
 
 
    
    
 
 
     
    
    
 
extrapolation as to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Section  7  of Executive  Order (EO)  10865  provides that adverse decisions shall  be  
“in  terms of the  national interest  and  shall  in no  sense  be  a  determination  as to  the  loyalty  
of the   applicant  concerned.”  See  also  EO 12968, Section  3.1(b) (listing  multiple  
prerequisites for access to classified or sensitive information).    
Analysis  
Guideline F - Financial Considerations  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Financial Considerations is set 
out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual's reliability, trus tworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
Affluence that cannot be explained by known sour ces of income is also a 
security concern insofar as it may result from criminal activity, including 
espionage. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise sec urity concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. One is potentially applicable in this case: 
(f)  failure to  file or fraudulently filing  annual Federal, state, or local income  
tax returns or failure to  pay annual Federal,  state, or local income  tax as  
required.  
Applicant failed to file his Federal and State income tax returns for tax years 2021 
and 2022 in a timely manner, and owes monies as a result of these untimely filings. The 
evidence is sufficient to raise these disqualifying conditions. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
   
 
 
 
 
   
      
      
 
 
 
          
      
         
    
 
 
       
   
  
AG ¶ 20 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. I considered 
all of the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 including: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or occurred  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur and  does not  cast doubt  
on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;  
(b) the  conditions  that resulted  in the  financial problem  were  largely  beyond  
the  person's control  (e.g.,  loss of  employment,  a  business downturn,  
unexpected  medical emergency,  a  death,  divorce  or separation, clear  
victimization  by predatory lending  practices, or identity  theft), and  the  
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;  and  
(g) the  individual  has  made  arrangements  with  the  appropriate  tax  authority  
to  file  or pay  the  amount  owed  and  is in compliance  with  those  
arrangements.  
Applicant has not submitted documentation regarding his State income tax filings, 
nor evidence regarding his averred monthly payments to the IRS. He has not 
demonstrated that future financial problems are unlikely. Mitigation under AG ¶ 20 has 
not been established. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole -person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  
and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct;  
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2( c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a security 
clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
      
    
           
  
 
 
        
    
 
   
 
      
 
   
 
   
 
 
             
       
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guideline F in my whole -person analysis. Overall, the record eviden ce leaves me with 
questions and doubts as to Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. 
For all these reasons, I conclude Applicant failed to mitigate the Financial Considerations 
security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by ¶ E3.1.25 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  F:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  1.a:  For Applicant 
Subparagraph  1.b:  Against  Applicant  
Subparagraph  1.c:  Against  Applicant  
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant national security eligibility 
for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Richard A. Cefola 
Administrative Judge 
6 