 
                                                
 
                                                 
                                       
                     DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE                       
    DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS  
                                  
     
           
             
 
 
 
 )  
In the  matter of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR Case No.  24-00490  
  )  
Applicant for Security Clearance  )  
___________________________________)  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
     
   
    
 
 
 
      
            
       
  
      
___________________________________ 
______________ 
______________ 
Appearances  
For Government: Tovah Minster, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
03/24/2025 
Decision  
MURPHY, Braden M., Administrative Judge: 
The Government alleged security concerns under Guideline F (financial 
considerations) and Guideline E (personal conduct). Personal conduct security concerns 
are not established, but Applicant did not provide sufficient evidence to mitigate financial 
security concerns arising from her delinquent debts. Applicant’s eligibility for access to 
classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on September 26, 
2023, in connection with an application for a job in the defense industry. On March 22, 
2024, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued Applicant a Statement of Reasons (SOR) 
detailing security concerns under Guideline F and Guideline E. The DOD took the action 
under Executive Order 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry 
1 
 
 
 
 
   
  
     
 
   
        
        
          
      
 
     
        
       
     
         
      
        
  
 
 
       
       
           
  
  
 
 
         
       
        
 
 
          
      
         
         
            
 
 
         
          
(February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel 
Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the 
National Security Adjudicative Guidelines (AG) effective within the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR on or about April 17, 2024, and requested a hearing 
before an administrative judge from the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA). 
The case was assigned to me on December 10, 2024. On January 21, 2025, after 
contacting the parties, DOHA issued a notice scheduling the hearing for February 10, 
2025. The hearing was to occur by video teleconference through an online platform. 
The hearing convened as scheduled. Department Counsel submitted 
Government’s Exhibits (GE) 1, 2, and 3. Applicant and her wife testified. Applicant did not 
provide any documents for submission as part of her case. The Government exhibits were 
admitted without objection. I initially left the record open until February 20, 2025, to allow 
Applicant the opportunity to submit additional exhibits. There was no response. On March 
13, 2025, I emailed Applicant again and reopened the record until March 17, 2025, to 
provide her the chance to submit documents. There was no response, and the record 
closed on March 17, 2025. DOHA received the transcript (Tr.) on February 24, 2025. 
Amendment to the Statement of Reasons  
At the start of the hearing, Department Counsel moved to withdraw SOR ¶ 2.a 
under Guideline E, an allegation that Applicant denied in her SOR response, and an 
allegation for which the Government submitted no supporting evidence. The motion to 
withdraw SOR ¶ 2.a was granted without objection. The underlying circumstances of the 
allegation will not be discussed further. (Tr. 14-19) 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant admitted the delinquent debts alleged at SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.g with 
brief comments for each. She denied the allegations at SOR ¶¶ 2.a (now withdrawn) and 
2.b, also with brief comments. Her admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. 
Additional findings follow. 
Applicant is 30 years old. She and her wife married in August 2022 but have been 
together since 2020. She lives with her two stepchildren, both teenagers. Applicant 
earned a high school diploma in 2013. She has worked as an armed security guard in 
various positions for the last 10 or 11 years. She currently works as a security guard in 
the gaming industry, in a job she began three weeks before the hearing. She earns $18 
an hour, for about 36 hours a week. (Tr. 11-12, 28-34, 77) 
Before then, Applicant was most recently employed from January to September 
2024 as a full -time security guard. She was terminated because her wife became 
2 
 
 
 
 
          
         
        
      
           
 
 
             
     
  
 
            
           
         
      
         
     
            
       
           
          
 
 
      
       
         
  
        
         
 
 
        
          
              
               
              
        
      
  
 
        
        
 
seriously ill, and Applicant had to take time away from work to care for her. Before then 
she worked in security and as a corrections officer. She has never worked in the defense 
industry before and has never held a clearance. She has applied for the clearance through 
a job application for a position as an armed security guard on a military base. She hopes 
to get the clearance so she can get the job and earn more money. (GE 1; Tr. 33 -35, 42, 
59) 
The seven Guideline F allegations in the SOR (SOR ¶¶ 1.a – 1.g) are all delinquent 
debts that appear on Applicant’s credit bureau report (CBR) dated September 30, 2023. 
(GE 3) As alleged, the debts total about $16,700. 
SOR ¶¶ 1.b, 1.c, 1.d ($935 each) and SOR ¶ 1.f ($645) are all past -due medical 
debts reported for collection to the same collection agency, for a combined total of $3,450. 
(GE 3) They were all assigned in either March or April 2023 and reported for collection in 
September 2023. (GE 3) Applicant explained that she incurred medical debts due to 
trip(s) to the hospital for emergency treatment and surgery in 2020 due to a serious 
medical condition. This took some time as she needed a facility that would accept a 
charity case, since she had no medical insurance at the time. She thought the debts have 
been resolved. The debts alleged are likely minimum payments required by the patient, 
though this is not clear. Applicant is seeking to resolve the debts through charity care, 
though this is not yet established. She last researched her debts about six mon ths ago. 
(SOR Response; Tr. 35-39, 71-72) 
SOR ¶ 1.a ($1,296) is a charged-off debt Applicant incurred for furniture items that 
she purchased for a family member, who Applicant thought had paid the bill. That was 
not the case, and the debt is listed on Applicant’s CBR. (GE 3) Applicant had a falling out 
with the family member, an uncle, over this issue, and he declined to pay or to return the 
furniture. She provided no documentation to support her assertion that she was not 
responsible for the debt and provided no documentation of her efforts to otherwise pay or 
resolve it. (Tr. 52-53 
SOR ¶ 1.e ($714) is a debt placed for collection by a cell phone company. (GE 3) 
Applicant purchased the phone from a large retail store for her mother and said she was 
told she had 30 days to return it at no cost. When she returned the phone near the end 
of the 30 days, she was told that she had only 15 days to return it and was now beyond 
that timeframe. She returned the phone but remains liable for the debt. She provided no 
documentation to support her assertion that she was not responsible for the debt and 
provided no documentation of her efforts to otherwise pay or resolve it. (SOR Response; 
GE 2, GE 3; Tr. 39-41, 81) 
SOR ¶ 1.g ($11,262) is the past -due balance owed after the resale of a 
repossessed vehicle. Applicant explained that she fell behind on payments for the vehicle 
after she lost her job, in 2019 or 2020. She had the vehicle repossessed voluntarily. She 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
       
     
           
  
 
 
       
         
        
        
      
 
 
     
       
      
  
 
        
       
             
  
 
     
          
         
         
            
             
           
 
 
        
  
     
said she  is “pretty sure” she  still  owes on  the  debt. (SOR Response;  GE  2,  GE  3  Tr. 42-
43, 53-54, 80)  
Applicant said she first fell behind on her debts in 2019. She was unemployed for 
most of 2020. (GE 1; Tr. 54) She acknowledged that she has not made any payments on 
any of her SOR debts, despite being made aware of them at least during her interview. 
She has no other debts beyond what is alleged in the SOR. She is trying to keep up with 
her current bills. (Tr. 51-55) 
Applicant’s wife, S, is employed full time. They rent their home and share 
household income and expenses. S keeps the household budget and pays the bills. 
Applicant is generally less involved. However, over the last few months, when S was very 
sick and una ble to work, Applicant handled the finances and provided income for the 
household. They have limited savings, but S recently entered a 401(k)-pension plan. (Tr. 
55-59, 63-70) 
Applicant did not disclose any delinquent debts when she submitted her 
September 2023 SCA or report information about her financial record, even though a 
credit report from that month shows several past -due debts that she should have 
disclosed if she knew about them. (GE 1 at 31, GE 3) 
Under Guideline E, Applicant denied SOR ¶ 2.b, which alleged that she 
deliberately failed to disclose any of her delinquent debts on her SCA. The fact that she 
denied the allegation puts the burden on the Government to prove it. Applicant said her 
wife helped her fill it out, which her wife confirmed. (Tr. 21, 67) 
The summary of Applicant’s November 2023 background interview reflects that 
when she was asked about her financial history, she “freely disclosed that she had a 
vehicle involuntarily repossessed in 2019 or 2020,” and that she still owed more than 
$10,000 on the loan. She discussed the circumstances of the vehicle purchase and said 
the vehicle was repossessed after she lost her job. She indicated that she had no plan to 
address the debt and did not intend to try to do so since she thought the resale should 
have taken care of any debt owed. She said she did not list the debt on her SCA because 
she forgot about it. (GE 2 at 3) 
Applicant testified  that  she  did  not  know about her debts when  she  filled  out her  
SCA and  was not  trying  to  hide  them  from  the  Government.  She  has an  “app” on  her 
phone  that  she  uses to  check her credit and  the  SOR debts were  not listed.  She  said  that  
the  interviewer sent her a copy of her credit report before her interview. (Tr. 45-50)  
Applicant said that after her interview, she did not attempt to address her debts, 
though she stopped buying things on credit that she did not need. She asserted that she 
is not financially experienced. (Tr. 49-50) She said she is barely making ends meet at her 
4 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
        
         
        
          
 
 
          
         
     
 
 
        
     
 
 
 
         
       
      
 
 
 
 
current hourly rate. It has been since 2017 that she had a job where she was able to pay 
her bills. (Tr. 42, 49-50, 59) 
Applicant’s wife S provided clarifying testimony about their finances and 
circumstances. She is a licensed practical nurse by training. They traveled from job to job 
during the COVID-19 pandemic but S now works from home handling medical records. 
She earns $16 an hour. She is still recovering from her major surgery and is unable to 
drive. (Tr. 63-64, 69-70, 78,82) 
S handles the finances in the home. She is aware of Applicant’s debts. She said 
for SOR ¶ 1.a, Applicant’s uncle was supposed to take up the payments for the furniture 
but never did. Applicant did not have insurance to cover her medical expenses. They now 
have insurance through S’s job. (Tr. 75-77, 83-84) 
S testified that Applicant “has lived and breathed security” for many years. Many 
security positions are “dead-end” jobs with little income and few benefits or job security. 
Applicant loves her work and is good at it. She gets along with others. (Tr. 68-69) 
Policies  
It is well established that no one has a right to a security clearance. As the 
Supreme Court has held, “the clearly consistent standard indicates that security 
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy 
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988). 
The  adjudicative  guidelines are  not inflexible  rules of law.  Instead, recognizing  the  
complexities of human  behavior, administrative  judges  apply the  guidelines in  conjunction  
with  the  factors listed  in  the  adjudicative  process. The  administrative  judge’s overarching  
adjudicative  goal is a  fair, impartial, and  commonsense  decision. According  to  AG ¶  2(a),  
the  entire process is a  conscientious scrutiny  of several variables known as the   “whole-
person  concept.” The  administrative  judge  must consider all  available, reliable  information  
about the  person, past and  present,  favorable and  unfavorable,  in  making  a  decision. The  
protection  of the  national security is the  paramount consideration. AG  ¶  2(b) requires that  
“[a]ny doubt concerning  personnel being  considered  for access to  classified  information  
will  be  resolved  in  favor of the  national security.” In  reaching  this decision, I  have  drawn  
only those  conclusions that  are  reasonable,  logical, and  based  on  the  evidence  contained  
in the  record. Likewise,  I have  avoided  drawing  inferences grounded  on  mere speculation  
or conjecture.  
Under Directive  ¶  E3.1.14, the  Government  must present evidence  to  establish  
controverted  facts alleged  in the   SOR. Under Directive ¶  E3.1.15, an   “applicant is   
responsible  for presenting  witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
          
       
    
              
      
     
         
 
 
 
 
      
   
 
     
   
            
   
   
 
       
     
      
       
    
 
 
    
    
 
 
 
 
        
     
      
mitigate  facts admitted  by applicant or proven  by Department Counsel, and  has the  
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining  a favorable security decision.”  
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
that an applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Analysis  
Guideline F, Financial Considerations  
The security concern relating to the guideline for financial considerations is set out, 
in relevant part, in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual's reliability, trus tworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. . . . 
This concern is broader than the possibility that an individual might knowingly 
compromise classified information in order to raise money. It encompasses concerns 
about an individual’s self -control, judgment, and other qualities essential to protecting 
classified information. An individual who is financially irresponsible may also be 
irresponsible, unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding classified 
information. ISCR Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012). 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a)  inability to satisfy debts; and   
(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations.  
Applicant fell behind on several accounts during a period of unemployment and 
job instability several years ago. Her debts include an automobile repossession, some 
consumer debts, and debts for emergency medical care while she had no insurance. The 
6 
 
 
 
 
       
  
 
       
       
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
    
 
    
      
    
      
SOR debts are established by her admissions, statements, and by GE 2, the credit report 
in the record. AG ¶¶ 19(a) and 19(c) apply. 
The guideline also includes conditions that could mitigate security concerns arising 
from financial difficulties. The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 are potentially 
applicable: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or occurred  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur and  does not  cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment.  
(b) the  conditions  that resulted  in the  financial problem  were  largely  beyond  
the  person’s control (e.g.,  loss of employment,  a  business downturn,   
unexpected  medical emergency, or a  death,  divorce  or separation, clear  
victimization  by predatory lending  practices, or identity  theft), and  the  
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances.  
(d) the  individual initiated  and  is adhering  to  a  good-faith  effort to  repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  and   
(e) the  individual has  a  reasonable basis to  dispute  the  legitimacy  of the  
past-due  debt which is the cause of the  problem and provides documented  
proof to  substantiate  the  basis of the  dispute  or provides evidence  of actions  
to resolve the issue.  
Applicant’s ability to  address  her  debts  responsibly is   impacted  by her   limited  
income. She  also incurred  debts for emergency medical services for a  serious medical 
condition  at a  time  when  she  had  no  insurance. These  medical debts are not a  security  
concern given  their  origin  and  their  nature and  are mitigated  under AG ¶  20(b) even  
though  they remain  outstanding.  The  remaining  debts  are  also  unresolved.  Applicant  has  
not  addressed  her other debts  or  attempted  to  pay or resolve them.  She  provided  no  
documentation  of  any payments  towards her  debts, or efforts  to  dispute  them. Applicant  
needs to  establish  a  track record  of  financial stability and  good-faith  efforts  towards 
resolving  her debts  before the  resulting  security concern  can  be  considered  mitigated.  
Other than as to the  medical debts, no mitigating conditions fully apply.  
Guideline E, Personal Conduct  
AG ¶ 15 expresses the security concern for personal conduct: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. O f special interest is any failure to 
7 
 
 
 
 
    
 
   
           
 
 
 
     
   
       
   
      
            
  
 
 
 
 
  
          
   
  
       
        
       
          
           
cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes. . . 
AG ¶ 16 describes conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying. The following disqualifying conditions are potentially applicable: 
(a) deliberate  omission, concealment,  or falsification  of relevant facts from  
any personnel  security questionnaire, personal history statement,  or similar  
form  used  to  conduct investigations . . . determine  national security eligibility  
or trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities.  
Under Guideline E, the SOR alleged that Applicant allegedly falsified her 2023 
SCA by failing to disclose any of the SOR debts. She should have disclosed them, given 
the wording of the financial questions on the form. However, I also credit the fact that the 
interview summary reflects that she voluntarily disclosed her auto repossession, by far 
the largest debt alleged. Applicant credibly asserted that she did not deliberately fail to 
disclose her debts on her SCA. I find that AG ¶ 16(a) is not established and SOR ¶ 2.b is 
found for Applicant. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the  whole-person  concept,  the  administrative judge  must  evaluate  an  
applicant’s eligibility for a  security clearance  by considering  the  totality of the  applicant’s  
conduct and  all  the  circumstances. The  administrative judge  should consider the  nine  
adjudicative process factors listed  at AG ¶  2(d):  
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  
and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct;  
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(a), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a security 
clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in considering 
all the facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments 
under Guidelines F and E in my whole-person analysis. I credit Applicant’s dedication to 
her work in the security field, as she and her wife both testified to. However, this does not 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
    
 
      
 
        
      
       
  
     
   
     
      
 
 
      
      
  
                                                   
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
outweigh  the  security concerns  shown  by her history of financial delinquencies. Her  
delinquent debts will  remain  a  security concern until she  shows a  documented  track  
record of good-faith  efforts to  resolve them  and  financial stability. The  record evidence  
leaves me  with  questions and  doubts as to   Applicant’s eligibility and  suitability for a   
security clearance. For all  these  reasons,  I  conclude  that while  Guideline  E  personal  
conduct security concerns are  not  established, Applicant failed  to  mitigate  the  security  
concerns arising under Guideline F, financial considerations.   
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline F:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  1.a:  Against Applicant 
Subparagraphs 1.b-1.d, 1.f:  For Applicant 
Subparagraphs 1.e, 1.g: Against Applicant 
Paragraph  2, Guideline E:   FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  2.a:  Withdrawn 
Subparagraph  2.b:  For Applicant 
Conclusion  
Considering all the circumstances presented, it is not clearly consistent with the 
interests of national security to grant Applicant eligibility for access to classified 
information. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Braden M. Murphy 
Administrative Judge 
9 