 
 
 
  
                                                              
    
                       DEPARTMENT OF  DEFENSE  
    DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS       
           
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
    
       
     
  
    
  
  
    
  
     
   
 
 
______________ 
______________ 
In  the matter  of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR Case  No. 24-01980  
  )    
 )  
Applicant for  Security Clearance  )  
 
A
ppearances  
For Government: Cynthia Ruckno, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
07/11/2025 
Decision  
Lokey Anderson, Darlene D., Administrative Judge: 
On February 9, 2024, Applicant submitted a security clearance application ( e-
QIP). (Item 3.) On December 31, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security 
Agency Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCAS CAS) issued Applicant a Statement 
of Reasons (SOR), detailing security concerns under Guideline H, Drug Involvement 
and Substance Misuse; and Guideline E, Personal Conduct. The action was taken 
under Executive Order 10865 (EO), Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry 
(February 20, 1960), as amended; DoD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel 
Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and 
the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to 
Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective within the 
DoD after June 8, 2017. 
 
 
 
   
  
   
   
   
   
    
 
 
 
 
     
 
       
      
  
    
 
 
   
   
   
 
  
 
  
      
    
   
   
 
    
     
  
   
 
    
  
    
  
  
   
 
Applicant responded to the SOR (Answer) on January 7, 2025. (Item 2.)  He 
requested that his case be decided by an administrative judge on the written record. 
Department Counsel submitted the Government’s written case on February 13, 2025. 
A complete copy of the File of Relevant Material (FORM), containing five Items was 
received by Applicant on March 25, 2025.  He was afforded an opportunity to file 
objections and submit material in refutation, extenuation, or mitigation within 30 days of 
receipt of the FORM. Applicant submitted no response to the FORM.  DOHA assigned 
the case to me on July 1, 2025.  Items 1 through 5 will hereinafter be referred to as 
Government Exhibits 1 through 5. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 66 years old. He has been married three times and has adult 
children.  He has a high school diploma. He owned a construction company for 32 
years, and later joined another firm.  He has never held a security clearance before and 
is seeking one in connection with his employment. 
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse   
Guideline E  –  Personal Conduct  
T
he Government alleges that the Applicant has engaged in conduct involving 
questionable judgment, which can raise questions about an individual’s reliability and 
trustworthiness. 
Applicant has a history of self -employment through a series of property 
management LLC’s and other investments.   He has also owned and operated his own 
construction company for 32 years.  He stated that his former construction company has 
built projects for marijuana business owners, but he has not been directly involved in the 
marijuana business.  Presently, he has invested in a THC -related business and 
maintains a passive role.  He is sponsored by a defense contractor for a security 
clearance. 
The SOR contains two allegations concerning Applicant’s drug involvement. 
First, that he has a $500,000 investment in a THC -related business; and second, that 
he declared that he will not divest his interest in the company.  Applicant admits to both 
allegations. 
From about March 2020 to the present, Applicant has been a part -time sole 
owner of an LLC.  Through t his LLC, Applicant made a direct investment of $500,000 in 
a company that manufactures marijuana edibles.  This direct investment was made so 
that the company could afford to build new production facilities for marijuana edibles. 
Applicant stated that he has not received any profit or income from the marijuana 
business or from his investment, and will not likely see anything for another five years. 
2 
 
 
 
    
   
   
          
 
       
 
    
 
 
      
   
 
 
   
      
    
  
      
   
 
 
 
   
     
 
 
 
 
       
     
  
    
     
  
 
    
 
    
  
    
      
    
    
Applicant also stated that he does not use illegal substances, which the 
Government does not contest.  However, in response to DOHA interrogatories dated 
November 14, 2024, he stated that he will not divest his interest in the THC -related 
company. 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The 
administrative judge’s over arching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and 
commonsense decision.  The entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of 
variables known as the whole- person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I 
have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical and based on the 
evidence contained in the record. Likewise, I have avoided drawing inferences 
grounded on mere speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, 
or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel .” The 
applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable clearance 
decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The g overnment 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to 
potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
3 
 
 
 
 
   
  
     
    
 
  
 
  
    
    
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
    
    
 
  
    
 
    
   
 
   
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
         
 
 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Department Counsel requested that Administrative Notice be taken of information 
set forth in a Memorandum from the Director of National Intelligence, dated December 
21, 2021.  (Government Exhibit 5.)  Applicant did not respond to the FORM.  The 
Government policies discussed in the memorandum are relevant and address pertinent 
issues in this case. 
The Director of National Intelligence has stated: 
Finally with the topic of investments, agencies should note that an 
adjudicative determination for an individual’s eligibility for access to 
classified information or eligibility to hold a sensitive position may be 
impacted negatively should that individual knowingly and directly invest in 
stocks or business ventures that specifically pertain to marijuana growers 
and retailers while the cultivation and distribution of marijuana remains 
illegal under the Controlled Substance Act.  Under SEAD 4’s guidance for 
personal conduct (Reference B, Guideline E), a decision to invest in an 
activity, including a marijuana- related business, which the individual 
knows violates federal law could reflect questionable judgment and an 
unwillingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations.  That is, it is 
appropriate for adjudicative personnel to consider whether an individual is 
knowingly facilitating violations of the Controlled Substances Act by 
engaging in such investments.  On the other hand, if the marijuana- related 
investment is not direct, such as an investment in a diversified mutual fund 
that is publicly traded on a United States exchange, adjudicators should 
presume that individual did not knowingly invest in a marijuana- related 
business – thus, the indirect investment should not be considered relevant 
to adjudications.  In some instances, the investment itself may be illegal, 
which is also relevant to SEAD 4’s guidance for criminal conduct 
(Reference B, Guideline J), which by its very nature calls into question an 
individual’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules and 
regulations.  However, under the whole- person concept, any mitigating 
factors should be considered.  For example, if an individual holds direct 
stock investments pertaining to marijuana growers and retailers, 
divestments of such activity or disassociation of such activity should be 
considered a mitigating factor when rendering an adjudicative decision. 
(See, Director of National Intelligence Memorandum ES -2021-01529, 
dated December 21, 2021; and Directive, Enclosure 3, paragraph E.1.15.) 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
    
   
   
  
  
 
     
 
 
 
  
  
  
    
  
     
   
  
   
  
    
   
 
  
   
 
 
Analysis  
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Drug Involvement and 
Substance Misuse is set forth at AG ¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual's reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior 
may lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person's ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any "controlled substance" 
as defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term 
adopted in this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
The guideline at AG ¶ 25 contains one condition that could raise a security 
concern and may be disqualifying: 
(g) expressed intent to continue drug involvement  and substance  misuse,  
or failure to clearly  and convincingly commit to discontinue such misuse.   
Applicant may not be a user of THC or any other illegal substance, but is directly 
involved with a THC -related business.  He made a direct financial investment in the 
company with an anticipated return on the investment, which is disqualifying.  Federal 
law prohibits this type of business interest. Applicant’s direct investment is different 
than investing in a diversified mutual fund that is publicly traded on a US exchange and 
has a THC -related company as part of its portfolio. The latter is permitted while the 
former is not. He knowingly and directly invested in a business venture that specifically 
involves marijuana growers and retailers , which under the Controlled Substances Act 
remains illegal. Furthermore, Applicant’s investment in a THC-related business knowing 
he is in violation of the Controlled Substances Act, thereby violating federal law, 
demonstrates questionable judgment and calls into question his ability or willingness to 
comply with laws, rules and regulations. The above disqualifying condition applies. 
The guideline at AG ¶ 26 contains conditions that could mitigate security 
concerns: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or
  happened  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur  or does not cast doubt  
on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;  
and  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
    
 
    
  
  
   
 
 
        
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
     
 
(b) the individual acknowledges  hi
 s or her drug involvement  and  
substance misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this  
problem,  and has  established a pattern of  abstinence, including,  but not  
limited to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-us ing associates and contacts;   
(2) changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were  
us
ed; and  
(
3) providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all  
dr
ug involvement  and  substance misuse, acknowledging that  
any future involvement or  misuse is  grounds for revocation  
of national security  eligibility.  
None o
f the mitigating factors are applicable.  Applicant knew that the company 
he was investing in was a THC -related business, and that it would be incompatible with 
security clearance eligibility.  Despite knowing this, he has elected to maintain the 
financial interest rather than divest it.  This involvement and his behavior is recent and 
on-going, and he plans to continue it. 
Applicant has the responsibility to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the facts 
admitted by Applicant or proven by the Government, and has the ultimate burden of 
persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision.  Applicant has failed to provide any 
evidence in mitigation.  Accordingly, Guideline H is found against the Applicant. 
Guideline E- Personal Conduct  
The security concern for Personal Conduct is set out in AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to 
cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 16. One is potentially applicable in this case: 
(c) credible adverse information in several adjudicative issue areas that is  
not
 sufficient  for an adverse determination under any  other single  
guideline, but  which, when considered as a whole,  supports  a whole-
person assessment  of questionable judgment, untrustworthiness to  
comply with rules and regulations, or  other characteristics indicating that  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
       
 
  
 
 
the individual may  not properly safeguard classified or sensitive  
information;  
(d) credible adverse information that is not explicitly covered under any  
ot
her  guideline and may not be sufficient by itself for an adverse  
determination,  but which, when combined with all available information,  
supports a whole- person assessment  of questionable judgment,   
untrustworthiness,  unreliability, lack of candor, unwillingness to comply  
with rules and regulations,  or other characteristics indicating that the  
individual  may not properly safeguard classified or sensitive information.   
This includes but is not limited to, consideration of:    
(1) untrustworthy or unreliable behavior to include breach of  
c
lient confidentiality, release of proprietary information,   
unauthorized release of sensitive corporate or government  
protected information;  
(2) any disruptive, violent,  or  other inappropriate behavior; and  
(3) a pattern of  di shonesty or rule violations.   
(e) personal conduct,  or  concealment of information about  one’s conduct,  
that creates  a vulnerability to exploitation,  manipulation,  or duress by a  
foreign intelligence entity or other individual or group.  Such conduct  
includes:     
(1) engaging in activities which, if known, could affect  t he  
person’s  personal, professional, or community standing; and  
(g) association with persons involved in criminal activity.  
The gu
ideline at AG ¶ 17 contains conditions that could mitigate security 
concerns. Two of the conditions are potentially applicable: 
(d) the individual has acknowledged the behavior and obtained counseling  
t
o change the behavior or taken other positive steps to alleviate the  
stressors, circumstances, or factors that  contributed to untrustworthy,  
unreliable, or other inappropriate behavior,  and such behavior is unlikely  
to recur; and    
(e) the individual has taken positive steps to reduce or eliminate   
v
ulnerability to exploitation,  manipulation, or duress.  
7 
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
     
      
 
  
   
  
      
  
    
 
           
 
 
   
    
       
     
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
   
  
 
     
 
 
   
None of the mitigating conditions are applicable here.  Applicant’s involvement in 
a THC- related business are actions that show questionable judgment and an 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations.  The Applicant’s behavior raises 
questions about his reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or 
sensitive information. Applicant’s actions are recent, on- going, and he has no plans to 
change them. 
Applicant’s financial involvement in a THC-related business, and his intention to 
continue his involvement makes him unsuitable for access to classified information. 
Considered in totality, Applicant’s conduct precludes a finding of good judgment, 
reliability, and/or the ability to abide by rules and regulations. Applicant has not shown 
sufficient mitigation to be entrusted with the privilege of holding a security clearance. 
Applicants are expected to abide by all laws, regulations, and policies that apply to 
them.  He has failed to provide evidence to mitigate this security concern.  Accordingly, 
Guideline E is found against the Applicant. 
Whole-Person  Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5)  the  extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of  
rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation  
for the conduct; (8) the potential for  pressure, coercion, exploitation,  or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2( c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a security 
clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guidelines H and E in my whole- person analysis. An individual who holds a security 
clearance is expected to comply with the law at all times. Applicant has not 
demonstrated a willingness to comply with the rules and regulations that is needed for 
access to classified information. Applicant understands the requirements associated 
with holding a security clearance and knows that illegal drug involvement is not 
tolerated.  Under the circumstances, Applicant is not an individual in whom the 
Government can be confident to know that he will always follow rules and regulations 
8 
 
 
 
    
            
 
   
     
   
    
 
 
 
  
    
 
  
 
    
 
   
 
       
 
 
 
       
     
      
                                             
 
 
  
 
 
           
and do the right thing, even when no one is looking.  Applicant does not meet the 
qualifications for access to classified or sensitive information. 
Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts as to 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. For all these reasons, I 
conclude Applicant failed to mitigate the Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse, and 
Personal Conduct security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by ¶ E3.1.25 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  Guideline H:   AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 1.a.  and 1.b.  Against  Applicant  
Paragraph 2, Guideline E:  AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraph  2.a. Against  Applicant  
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue Applicant’s eligibility for 
a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Darlene Lokey Anderson 
Administrative Judge 
9 