 
 
  
  
        
         
           
             
 
 
    
  
       
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
       
     
   
    
  
    
    
     
   
   
   
    
    
   
______________ 
______________ 
DEPA
RTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 24-00278 
Appearances  
For Government: George Hawkins, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Grant Couch, Esq. 
10/16/2025 
Decision 
DORSEY, Benjamin R., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not mitigate the personal conduct security concerns. Eligibility for 
access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
On May 6, 2024, the Department of Defense (DOD ) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline E, personal 
conduct. The DOD acted under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified 
Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of Defense 
(DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) 
implemented on June 8, 2017. Applicant, through counsel, responded to the SOR on 
June 4, 2024 (Answer 1), and requested a hearing before an administrative judge from 
the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) . On September 4, 2024, the 
Government amended the SOR to include additional allegations under Guideline E. 
Applicant, through counsel, responded to the amended SOR on September 17, 2024 
(Answer 2). The case was assigned to me on March 7, 2025. After conferring with the 
parties about their hearing availability, on March 11, 2025, DOHA sent a notice of hearing 
to the parties, scheduling the matter for a hearing on June 2, 2025. 
 
 
 
  
     
     
   
   
  
 
      
     
       
  
       
   
 
   
   
  
   
     
 
 
    
     
       
     
  
   
     
     
      
     
    
    
     
 
     
      
  
 
 
        
       
  
      
 
On April 7, 2025, Applicant submitted a Request for Discovery that sought 
discovery of information from the Government that was both within and outside the scope 
of information of which the Directive required disclosure by the opposing party. That same 
date, via e-mail, I partially denied his Request for Discovery and required the Government 
disclose only the requested information required by the Directive, namely documents that 
the Government intends to present as evidence during the hearing. 
On April 24, 2025, Applicant filed a Motion for Recusal moving that I recuse myself 
as the administrative judge in this matter and that another administrative judge be 
assigned. The Motion for Recusal included a declaration from another attorney within Mr. 
Couch’s law firm. I have marked the M otion for Recusal and declaration as Hearing 
Exhibit (HE) 1. On May 8, 2025, the Government filed its Opposition to the Motion for 
Recusal, which I marked as HE 2. 
On May 30, 2025, Applicant filed a request that I take j udicial notice of a 
constitutional amendment and a federal statute. I have marked this request for judicial 
notice as HE 3. I deemed this request to have been untimely filed as it did not provide the 
Government with appropriate notice and an adequate opportunity to respond. To allow 
for appropriate notice of his request for judicial notice, I granted Applicant’s request for a 
continuance of the hearing date. 
After conferring with the parties about their hearing availability , on June 5, 2025, 
DOHA sent a notice of hearing to the parties rescheduling the matter for a hearing on July 
29, 2025. The hearing was convened as rescheduled. Government Exhibits (GE) 1 
through 9 were admitted in evidence, without objection. I marked the Government’s 
October 9, 2024 transmittal letter that included its exhibit list describing GE 1 through 9 
as HE 4. Applicant Exhibits (AE) A through DD were admitted in evidence, without 
objection. I marked Applicant’s exhibit list contained in Answer 1 describing AE A through 
N as HE 5. I marked Applicant’s exhibit list describing AE O as HE 6. I marked Applicant’s 
exhibit list describing AE P through X as HE 7. I re-marked the contents of Applicant’s 
exhibit list from Answer 2 describing AE A through F as AE Y through DD, as he used the 
same alphabetical markings for other documents (also marked AE A through F) he 
submitted with Answer I (Transcript (Tr.) 64). I marked the exhibit list contained in Answer 
2 as HE 8. At Applicant’s request, I left the record open until August 5, 2025, to allow the 
parties to provide post -hearing documents. Applicant timely provided AE EE through II, 
which I admitted in evidence, without objection. I marked Applicant’s exhibit list describing 
post-hearing exhibits EE through II as HE 9. DOHA received the transcript of the hearing 
on August 5, 2025. 
Preliminary Motions  
After offering the parties the opportunity to be heard on Applicant’s Motion for 
Recusal, I denied it and noted my basis for that denial in the record. I also offered the 
parties the opportunity to be heard on the request for judicial notice and then granted it in 
part and denied it in part. I noted my basis for doing so in the record. (Tr. 7-16; AE P-X) 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
    
     
   
      
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
Findings of  Fact  
Applicant is a  45-year-old employee of a defense contractor  for whom he works  as  
a linguist. He has worked for his current employer since about  April  2024. He has  been  
continuously  employed by other government contractors as a linguist  since about January  
2021.  He was born in Iraq but  renounced his  Iraqi citizenship and  became a naturalized  
U.S. citizen in February 2010.  He earned a h igh school diploma in 1999 and  bachelor’s  
degree in 2003.  He received a diploma from  the U.S. Military Intelligence School in 2010.  
He  was married in March 2012 and divorced in February 2013.  After  his divorce, he and  
his ex-wife began living together again.  He married  another woman i n February 2024.  He 
has  an 11-year-old  stepdaughter  from  his  second marriage.  He and his wife also have a  
seven-month-old  son.  He served on active duty  in  the U.S. Army from  August 2009  until  
April 2013, when he received an honorable discharge.  He was not  disciplined under the  
Uniform Code of Military Justice  (UCMJ) while he was on active duty.  He has served in  
the Army National Guard on inactive reserve duty since April 2013.  He was deployed to  
an active combat zone during his Army service, and at times,  while working for  a  
government contractor.  (Tr.  116-125, 164-168, 176-177;  Answer 1; Answer 2;  GE 1-3; 
AE  B, D-G,  O,  HH)  
Generally, the SOR allegations involve Applicant’s alleged poor work performance 
and misconduct while working as a linguist for an employer (Company A), for whom he 
worked between 2015 and September 2019. More specifically, this alleged misconduct 
occurred while he was detailed by Company A to a Joint Task Force (JTF) at a military 
base overseas. The SOR allegations also in clude Applicant’s deliberate falsification of 
two security clearance applications and the untruthful information he provided during a 
January 2020 Counterintelligence- Focused Security Screening Interview (CI Interview). 
Finally, the SOR alleges that Applicant raped his wife in 2012. 
In a September 10, 2019 Memorandum  for the Record (MFR), JTF  memorialized  
that it released Applicant back to Company  A  and rescinded “his access to JTF facilities  
and systems  due to his  unsatisfactory performance.”  The MFR, signed by the JTF J2,  
and drafted, in part, by his military supervisor,  Master Sergeant (MSGT) A ,  alleged that  
Applicant “failed to adapt to the pace,  precision required, and demands of the linguist  
position here with JTF.” The MFR noted that  Applicant had “bypassed the military  chain 
of command on multiple occasions speaking directly with the JTF J2  SGM  and the JTF 
J6 without informing or  requesting TL  (MSGT A)  concurrence or  guidance.”  The MFR also 
listed Applicant’s  unwanted advances toward a female military service member.  In a 
Separation Form,  dated September 16, 2019, Company A indicated that  Applicant was  
being involuntarily separated at  the direction of its client (presumably the  JTF)  for 
“[p]erformance” and was not eligible for rehire by US Special Operations  Command 
(USSOCOM). On September 17, 2019, a civilian employee with the US Army sent an e-
mail to Applicant notifying him of  an incident  report  (IR)  that quoted t he  reasons for  his  
release from JTF contained in the  MFR. (Tr. 47-49, 178;  Answer 1; Answer 2;  GE 5, 6;  
AE A)  
The IR stated in relevant part: 
3 
 
 
  
     
  
  
  
   
    
    
  
  
 
  
  
  
    
     
        
     
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
       
   
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
     
   
 
 
   
    
  
       
   
Per a Memorandum for Record from the Joint Task Force, subject has failed 
to adapt to the pace, precision required and demands of the linguist position 
at the Joint Task Force (JTF). Subject bypassed the military chain of 
command on multiple occasions speaking directly to the JTF SGM and the 
JTF J6 without informing or requesting Task Lead concurrence or guidance. 
Subject has, on more than one occasion, made unwelcome advances 
towards a US military female. The MFR states subject admitted to his 
actions and did not perceive them as an issue. The MFR also states subject 
was formally counseled at the time of the incident. (Company A) was not 
provided any documentation of this formal counseling. 
The e-mail informed Applicant that he was required to provide a response to the 
Department of Defense Consolidated Adjudication Facility (DOD CAF). (AE A) 
In the September 19, 2019 security clearance application (2019 SCA) that 
Applicant certified as true and accurate, in response to a quer y regarding his reason for 
leaving Company A, he wrote that “I was told by my previous employee [sic] known as 
[Company A] that I am no longer needed my services and got out-processed as of 10 Sep 
2019.” When referencing his employment with Company A, h e responded, “NO” to the 
query whether “[f]or this employment, in the last seven years have you received a written 
warning, been officially reprimanded, suspended, or disciplined for misconduct in the 
workplace, such as violation of a security policy?” In response to the query of whether he 
had been fired, quit after being told he would be fired, left by mutual agreement following 
charges or allegations of misconduct , or left by mutual agreement following notice of 
unsatisfactory performance, he answered, “NO.” 
When answering queries in the 2019 SCA about his past work for another 
employer (Company B) from October 2013 until April 2014, he wrote that he had been 
fired by Company B in September 2019, and wrote the following for his reason for being 
fired: 
Allegation has been made on my misconduct as a result of a personal issue 
developed with an un mature [sic] team leader of the client I was assigned 
to from June to 10 Sep 2019. 
Under the heading, “Optional Comment” for his employment with Company B, he wrote 
the following: 
While the Team Leader named [MSGT A] of the client has made a decision 
to get me released from work, while [ MSGT A] briefed me, he was drunk, 
acted un maturely [sic] and unprofessionally. 
Applicant testified that he did not include information regarding his dismissal from 
Company A in his 2019 SCA because when he completed it, he did not know for certain 
that Company A had terminated him, and that he was waiting on the “official” word from 
Company A. He did not consider his release from JTF back to Company A as being fired 
because MSGT A did not have the authority to fire him, only to release him. He testified 
4 
 
 
     
   
  
   
     
   
 
   
   
      
     
   
 
    
    
    
    
    
      
  
  
 
   
  
  
      
 
   
 
    
     
     
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
   
   
   
   
     
 
that only Company A could fire him. He testified that Company A merely told him that his 
services were no longer needed. Before he left the country w here he was stationed with 
Company A, he asked his Company A supervisor for an official report so that he could 
“protest it” and “hire an attorney.” The Company A supervisor allegedly told him that he 
would get an official document when he got home. Applicant claimed that when he got 
home and asked the Company A human resources office for the official document, they 
would not provide him with one. He claimed that he provided the information that 
Company A provided him about the reason for his dismissal of which he was aware when 
he completed the 2019 SCA. Notwithstanding his testimony , he appears to have 
incorrectly noted the Company A misconduct allegations against him when describing his 
employment with Company B. (Tr. 156-158, 176- 178, 182 -184, 192 -198; Answer 1; 
Answer 2; GE 1, 4, 5; AE A, F) 
The report of a January 2020 Counterintelligence- Focused Security Screening 
Interview (CI Interview) reads that Applicant told the interviewer that, in relation to his 
employment with Company A, he “left because his contract ended.” There is no 
information in the CI Interview about performance issues as a reason for Applicant leaving 
that employment. In relation to where he has resided, the CI Interview reads that he left 
[Location A] in September 2019 “because his contract ended as a linguist with [Company 
A].”  During the CI Interview, he volunteered that his ex-wife accused him of sexual abuse, 
claiming that her mother and sister pressured her into making this claim, that she later 
recanted, and the charges were dropped. He indicated that he had never been accused 
of a security violation or had his security clearance suspended, revoked or denied. The 
CI Interview also reads that he drinks one to two glasses of wine per week. The report 
does not include any information regarding a medical diagnosis or condition that 
precludes Applicant from consuming alcohol. (Answer 1; Answer 2; GE 2; AE O) 
Applicant testified that, when he had the (January 2020) CI Interview, he still had 
not received an official reason from Company A for why it terminated hi m. Therefore, he 
provided the information that he thought was truthful based upon what Company A told 
him on September 10, 2019, to wit: that he left because his contract ended. (Tr. 158-159, 
195; Answer 1; Answer 2; GE 2) 
In the October 2022 security clearance application (2022 SCA) that Applicant 
certified as true and accurate, in response to a query as to his reason for leaving 
Company A, he wrote the following: 
There was discrimination I faced at my assignment location based on my 
race and natural origin, I reported it to my On- site manager who was my 
direct supervisor in OCONUS, in a result of that, the US military service 
member team leader who was known as [MSGT A ] terminated my 
assignment and my employer [acronym for Company A ] wrongfully 
terminated my employment and I am currently in lawsuit process against 
my previous employer [acronym for Company A ]. My current attorney’s 
name is [Mr. A], [Law Firm] located at [address], [phone number]. (GE1) 
5 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
     
     
    
     
     
  
    
    
 
 
 
   
 
  
     
   
     
   
   
    
  
    
  
    
  
 
    
  
 
 
       
   
  
   
      
   
    
  
  
  
In the 2022 SCA under the heading, “Reason for Leaving- Summary,” he wrote, “[f]ired” 
and stated the following: 
There was discrimination I faced at my assignment location based on my 
race and natural origin, I reported it to my On- site manager who was my 
direct supervisor in OCONUS, in a result of that, the US military service 
member team leader who was known as [MSGT A ] terminated my 
assignment and my employer [Company A ] [ acronym for Company A ] 
wrongfully terminated my employment and I am currently in lawsuit process 
against my previous employer [acronym for Company A]. The discrimination 
occurred adult [sic] toxic work environment which created by the US military 
service member [MSGT A] and I have another close friends [sic] who faced 
the same discrimination based on his race and natural origin can be 
reached to verify, [Mr. B] at [phone number]. My attorney’s name is [Mr. A], 
[Law Firm] located at [address], [phone number]. (GE 1) 
Under the heading, “[p]rovide the reason for being fired,” he wrote the following: 
Due to a bad leadership who created a most toxic environment and it was 
covered during the last subject interview of investigation. There was 
discrimination I faced at my assignment location based on my race and 
natural origin, I reported it to my On- site manager who was my direct 
supervisor in OCONUS, in a result of that, the US military service member 
team leader who was known as [MSGT A] terminated my assignment and 
my employer [acronym for Company A ] wrongfully terminated my 
employment and I am currentl y in lawsuit process against my previous 
employer [acronym for Company A]. The discrimination occurred adult [sic] 
toxic work environment which created by the US military service member 
[MSGT A ] and I have another close friends [sic] who faced the same 
discrimination based on his race and natural origin can be reached to verify, 
[Mr. B] at [phone number]. My attorney’s name is [Mr. A], [Law Firm] located 
at [address], [phone number]. (GE 1) 
Regarding the same employment with Company A, under the heading “Optional 
Comment,” he repeated the same information he included under the heading “Reason for 
Leaving-Summary.” 
Applicant testified that the information he provided regarding his leaving Company 
A in the 2022 SCA was accurate and represented why he thought he had been let go 
based on the information he had. He also noted that he had already provided the 
information about his reasons for leaving. He said he has been o pen and honest 
throughout the clearance process. (Tr. 159, 195-196; Answer 1; Answer 2; GE 1, 4, 5) 
In the February 2023 report of personal subject interview (and follow-on interviews) 
(PSI) that Applicant adopted on April 15, 2024, the DOD investigator confronted him with 
Company A’s employment record, and why he was fired. The DOD investigator discussed 
each of Company A’s stated reasons for firing Applicant with him and included his 
6 
 
 
    
   
   
 
   
    
       
 
   
   
     
  
  
  
  
   
   
    
 
 
  
   
  
 
   
 
     
  
   
 
     
   
 
      
  
     
   
        
 
       
   
     
  
      
  
     
    
responses in the PSI. With respect to the claim that he did not adapt to his position, 
Applicant argued that he worked at Company A for four years and his failure to adapt 
would have been raised sooner if it was an issue. With respect to the claim that Applicant 
bypassed the military chain of command, he noted that he was not in the military when 
he worked for Company A and therefore raised employment issues with his Company A 
supervisor. He also claimed that his military supervisor, MSGT A, had a personal issue 
with him, and made false claims against him. (Answer 1; Answer 2; GE 4, 5) 
In the PSI, r egarding the allegation that Applicant made unwanted advances 
towards a female colleague, he acknowledged that he asked a female colleague out on 
a date after they began texting one another, but he ceased his advances after she told 
him that she did not want to date him. He claimed that his professional relationship was 
good with her from the time she told him she did not want to date him until she thought 
she would be reprimanded for her role in a nearly failed mission. He claimed that she 
reported him for harassment to avoid getting in trouble and intimated that MSGT A 
coerced her into making a false accusation against him. In short, he denied all 
accusations against him and told the DOD investigator that he was suing Company A for 
wrongful termination, discrimination, and toxic leadership by MSGT A. (Answer 1; Answer 
2; GE 4, 5) 
During the PSI, the DOD investigator confronted Applicant with his 2012 sexual 
assault charge against his ex-wife. Applicant claimed that he did not sexually assault her, 
that his mother -in-law coerced her into making a false allegation, and that the relevant 
criminal investigation bore this information out and resulted in the charges being dropped. 
(Answer 1; Answer 2; GE 4) 
In August 2012, Applicant’s ex -wife accused him of raping her. According to a 
police report, she told Applicant “no” three times when he asked her to engage in sexual 
intercourse. After the third time she refused him, she alleged that he pinned her on her 
stomach while holding both hands behind her back and penetrated her vagina with his 
penis for about 20 seconds, until he stopped, and she kicked him off of her. About a day 
after the incident, she went to the hospital for treatment , and the hospital notif ied the 
police of a possible rape. Police interviewed her at the hospital. They noted that she did 
not have any marks on her body consistent with her story. After one of the officers 
suggested that a rape charge may ruin her husband’s career, and another told her that 
his career may already be ruined, they asked her if she wanted to press charges against 
him, and, while crying, she said she wanted to press charges . After further questioning, 
she signed the formal complaint form. (Tr. 168-174; Answer 1; Answer 2; GE 7; AE GG) 
Later that day, one of the same officers who interviewed Applicant’s ex-wife went 
to Applicant’s home to interview him. In response to questioning, Applicant alleged that 
she consented to sexual intercourse after a few moments of him “practically begging” for 
it. He claimed he stopped having sexual intercourse with her because he noticed she was 
not into the act. He acknowledged that she pushed him off of her but did not “kick” him. 
He said that she normally teased him about not having sex but would then relent and 
admit that she wanted to have sex more than he did. He intimated that is what happened 
on this occasion. He acknowledged that his ex -wife told him that night that she thought 
7 
 
 
 
    
  
     
     
 
 
   
  
 
  
   
   
   
   
    
    
   
       
 
    
  
   
    
 
  
     
    
    
 
   
      
 
   
       
  
      
 
     
      
  
  
  
   
    
    
     
he raped her. Applicant told police that he told his ex -wife that he did not rape her and 
that she is his wife. She responded by saying that she wanted a divorce. The police officer 
noted that he had been trained to recognize deception in the course of his duties and did 
not note any from Applicant during their interview. The police officer wrote that Applicant 
asked him if it was possible to rape one’s wife. (Tr. 168-174; Answer 1; Answer 2; GE 7; 
AE GG) 
A day after these interviews, Applicant’s ex -wife called the relevant police 
department and told them that Applicant had e- mailed her and her mother claiming he 
would commit suicide. When an officer responded to Applicant’s residence and spoke 
with him, he claimed that he did not send any e- mails or contact his ex-wife and that he 
was okay. The police officer noted that Applicant did not appear to be in any emotional or 
physical distress. On September 4, 2012, Applicant’s ex-wife went to the relevant police 
department and asked that police drop the rape charges against him, which they did. 
About four months after the alleged rape, he filed a divorce petition that was finalized in 
February 2013. Applicant testified that he and his ex-wife got a divorce so that she could 
more easily leave him if she was unhappy with him, but that, absent a br ief period of 
separation, they moved back in together and continued to live as husband and wife for 
several years thereafter. (Tr. 168-174; Answer 1; Answer 2; GE 7; AE GG) 
On November 19, 2012, the Army issued a Commander’s Report of Disciplinary or 
Administrative Action against Applicant noting the charge of forcible rape and taking 
administrative action against him. It referred him to Family Advocacy, and he was verbally 
counseled. In a November 13, 2012 CID report of investigation, the CID noted that the 
relevant local police department found that probable cause existed to believe that 
Applicant had committed forcible rape against his ex -wife. It also noted the Special 
Victims Prosecutor of the Office of the Staff Judge Advocate opined that probable cause 
exists to believe that Applicant committed the crime of forcible rape. The Government did 
not provide a copy of the November 7, 2012 Legal Opine Memo, one of the exhibits to 
the CID report of investigation. The Army withheld that two- page document because it 
purportedly contains information protected by attorney -client privilege or attorney -work 
product. (Tr. 174-175; Answer 1; Answer 2; GE 8, 9; AE GG) 
In a letter dated July 31, 2025, Applicant’s ex-wife denied that Applicant raped her 
in 2012 and stated that her family influenced her to file criminal charges against him. She 
noted that they became friends after their divorce and moved in together for a period of 
time. (Tr. 164-168; Answer 1; Answer 2; GE 4, 7-9; AE GG) 
Applicant testified that he did not rape his ex -wife in 2012. He acknowledged that 
they had normal marriage stressors possibly exacerbated by his being in the Army at the 
time. He testified they also had some intimacy issues, but that he never forced himself on 
her. He said that she had met with Army CID investigators and that she told one of the 
investigators that she was mad at him and made a false accusation against him. He also 
said that she told the Army CID investigator that she was being unduly influenced by her 
mother and sister. He agreed that his sister -in-law and mother-in-law were coercing her 
into make the rape allegation against him. He also claimed that the CID officer who 
investigated the alleged rape made a comment to him that he did not think that people of 
8 
 
 
      
     
   
  
 
    
       
    
 
   
   
   
   
     
   
   
    
   
  
   
 
  
  
  
      
   
    
 
   
  
  
  
   
     
   
  
  
    
     
 
   
   
   
 
 
  
     
Middle Eastern background should be in the U.S. military. He said that after the incident, 
they underwent marriage counseling and eventually got back together for a while before 
they separated. He said that they remained friends after separating and divorcing. He 
said that, in 2017, when she was interviewed by an investigator of the Office of Personnel 
Management (OPM) regarding his security clearance eligibility, she told the investigator 
that she made a false rape allegation against him. He testified that he understands that 
one cannot have sexual intercourse without consent, even if it involves one’s wife. (Tr. 
151-156, 168-174; Answer 1; Answer 2; GE 7-9; AE GG) 
MSGT A testified as part of the Government’s case in chief. He has served with 
the U.S. Marines for 19 years and has held Top Secret/Secret Compartmented 
Information (TS/SCI) security clearance eligibility since 2010. He has been deployed 
multiple times, including to combat zones. He was Applicant’s military supervisor from 
early July 2019 until Applicant was released from his duties with JTF and returned to 
Company A on September 10, 2019. MSGT A testified that he initially had no problem 
with Applicant. He was told by his predecessor that Applicant was held in high regard , 
and, after meeting Applicant, he thought Applicant seemed professional. However, his 
opinion of Applicant gradually soured. He testified that the first issue he had with Applicant 
was that a female soldier whom he supervised came to him claiming that Applicant was 
making unwanted advances toward her , and she wanted it to stop. He conducted an 
informal investigation by talking with others who might have information about the matter 
and talked to his supervisor about how to handle the situation. He also spoke with his 
predecessor who corroborated many of the female soldier’s allegations. The female 
soldier wrote a memorandum for the record detailing her allegations. That memorandum 
is not in evidence because it was housed in a computer information system at a clearance 
level higher than that permitted in this proceeding. (Tr. 26- 36, 68 -75, 96; Answer 1; 
Answer 2; GE 4-6; AE L) 
MSGT A also reviewed text messages between Applicant and the female soldier 
which can be described as showing Applicant was pursuing the female soldier 
romantically, but not in an aggressive manner. MSGT A verbally counseled Applicant , 
who denied any wrongdoing. He also had Applicant sign a form acknowledging the 
counseling. This counseling form is not in evidence. Applicant does not recall signing a 
document and claimed the discussion about ceasing his romantic pursuit of the female 
soldier was informal and largely conducted by MSGT A’s predecessor. MSGT A changed 
the female soldier’s shift so that she would have less chance of interacting with Applicant. 
The text messages in the record do not provide evidence that the female soldier asked 
Applicant to stop contacting her or that Applicant continued to do so after he was 
counseled to stop. (Tr. 26-36, 68-75, 103, 184-189; Answer 1; Answer 2; GE 4-6; AE L) 
Applicant testified that he became friendly with the female soldier, exchanged 
friendly texts with her, asked her on a date, and then stopped contacting her when MSGT 
A told him to stop. He acknowledged MSGT A and a lieutenant colonel verbally counseled 
him, but he denied doing anything wrong. He claimed he did not have any issues with the 
female soldier after MSGT A told him to stop contacting her. He also alleged that the 
female soldier falsely claimed that he was harassing her as a way to get herself out of 
trouble for an unrelated event. (Tr. 127-132; Answer 1; Answer 2; GE 4-6; AE L) 
9 
 
 
 
    
  
  
   
  
   
 
  
   
   
    
   
   
  
    
 
  
    
    
  
   
   
      
   
    
    
   
   
  
    
  
   
  
    
 
   
 
 
     
    
  
  
 
  
 
  
MSGT A testified that other linguists with whom Applicant worked complained to 
him that Applicant was late arriving to work, often smelled of alcohol when he did arrive, 
and often had bloodshot or distended eyes. The other linguists also told MSGT A that 
Applicant was drinking off base. Consuming alcohol without a waiver was against 
applicable General Order Number 1. MSGT A observed that Applicant often had 
bloodshot and distended eyes. He never observed Applicant arrive to work late, consume 
alcohol, or that he smelled of alcohol. He verbally counseled Applicant about drinking 
alcohol generally, and more specifically, off base. MSGT A testified that in response to 
this counseling, Applicant simply said that he understood he could not consume alcohol, 
without confirming that he had been consuming it. MSGT A was not aware that Applicant 
had a medical condition called gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) which Applicant 
said prevented him from consuming alcohol. MSGT A acknowledged that he, himself had 
consumed alcohol during this deployment, but that it was for operational purposes. He 
also acknowledged that it was possible that Applicant consumed alcohol for similar 
operational purposes, but none that he was aware of. MSGT A testified that, by this point, 
he was becoming frustrated with the inordinate amount of time he was having to devote 
to dealing with Applicant’s personnel issues, and he warned Applicant that if he had any 
more issues with him, he would release him from JTF. (Tr. 36-39, 75-85, 105; Answer 1; 
Answer 2; GE 4-6; AE O) 
Applicant denied that he stayed overnight offsite partying, frequenting bars, and 
drinking alcohol, or that he arrived to work late the following day. He noted that, since the 
end of 2012, he has suffered from GERD and a hiatal hernia, the painful symptoms of 
which would be exacerbated by his alcohol consumption. He said that he does not 
consume alcohol because of this medical condition. He also testified that MSGT A never 
counseled him about consuming alcohol. He claimed that other linguists, including one in 
particular who was MSGT A’s favorite linguist, were consistently “bad mouthing” him. He 
claimed that he complained to MSGT A about this particular linguist being late on a 
number of occasions, but MSGT A did not take any action against that linguist. He claimed 
that he was never late for his shift because his military experience had ingrained in him 
the importance of being on time, so it became a “muscle memory.” (Tr. 146-148, 189-190; 
Answer 1; Answer 2; AE O) 
Applicant denied that he failed to adapt to his position. He testified that the only 
reason MSGT A thought he made translation errors was based on false accusations by 
other linguists who were jealous of Applicant’s good standing. He noted that he may have 
taken longer to translate than other linguists, but that was because he was trying to be 
accurate and paying close attention to detail. He provided e- mails from Company A 
showing that he had done very well on Arabic and Kurdish proficiency tests. (Tr. 132-134; 
Answer 1; Answer 2; AE A) 
Shortly after counseling Applicant about his alleged alcohol consumption and 
arriving late to work, a female linguist came to MSGT A and claimed that she witnessed 
Applicant smelling women’s undergarments in the JTF compound laundry room. This 
individual provided the information regarding Applicant late in MSGT A’s shift, so he went 
to bed, planning to deal with the issue in the morning. About five hours later, MSGT A 
10 
 
 
   
  
   
  
     
     
 
 
 
 
    
    
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
   
 
    
  
    
 
 
   
  
 
   
   
   
was back at work drafting memorandums about this allegation to send to Company A, 
when his security officer called and told him that Applicant had twice called the security 
office to let them know that he had been awarded security clearance eligibility at a higher 
level. MSGT A took issue with Applicant contacting the security office without letting him 
know because he had regularly instructed his linguists to seek his permission before 
contacting people outside his team. (Tr. 41-49, 85-97, 105-111; Answer 1; Answer 2; GE 
4-6; AE L, M) 
MSGT A saw himself as a gatekeeper, of sorts, for contact outside of the group for  
which he was the supervisor. While his  predecessor did not  have this requirement, he let  
his team, including Applicant, know about it  when he took his supervisory role in July  
2019, and he reiterated it regularly. He did not reiterate this policy to Applicant between  
his  two phone calls to the security office. He considered Applicant contacting the security  
office before checking in with him to be Applicant bypassing the chain of command.  When  
he got off the phone with the security officer, another linguist came to MSGT A  and  
informed him that Applicant had been acting suspiciously by talking in low, hushed tones  
on a classified phone line. It was at about this time that MSGT  decided to release  
Applicant from supporting JTF  and  released  him  back  to Company A.  On September 10,  
2019, MSGT  A told Applicant that he was releasing him  back  to Company  A and relieving  
him of  his support role with JTF. (Tr. 41-49, 85-97, 105-111;  Answer 1; Answer 2;  GE  4-
6; AE L, M)  
Applicant denied that he smelled women’s undergarments in the laundry room. 
There is no video footage of him doing so because there were no video cameras in the 
laundry room. In June 2021, the woman who accused him of smelling women’s 
undergarments was convicted of delivering classified national defense information to aid 
a foreign government and sentenced to 23 years in prison. She passed classified 
information to a Lebanese national, believing that it would then be forwarded to Lebanese 
Hezbollah. The information she provided included identifying information about human 
intelligence assets. Applicant testified that she and MSGT A were close, as she did things 
like hide alcohol for him. He claimed that he told MSGT A that she was acting 
suspiciously, and that after that, she was out to get Applicant. He also testified that 
handling women’s clothes is taboo in his culture. (Tr. 39-41, 138-142; Answer 1; Answer 
2; GE 4-6; AE EE) 
Applicant denied that he went outside the chain of command when he contacted 
the task force’s security office. He said he was interested in moving from a Category II to 
Category III linguist to advance his career, and he took the steps to obtain a higher level 
of security eligibility that the Category III linguist position required. During his testimony, 
he did not directly address whether he contacted the task force’s security office in 
contravention of MSGT A’s direction. He alluded to being uncomfortable going directly to 
MSGT A because he thought MSGT A was unduly influenced by other linguists who were 
making false accusations against him. He thought MSGT A held a grudge against him 
because Applicant spoke negatively about MSGT A to his Company A supervisor, and he 
thought MSGT A found out about it. He also alluded to a lack of clarity as to the command 
chain between JTF and Company A, and confusion as to whom he was required to report. 
He testified that his actual supervisor was the site manager for Company A. He also 
11 
 
 
     
 
 
    
     
 
   
    
     
    
  
   
   
      
  
    
   
  
  
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
  
   
    
   
  
   
    
    
testified that MSGT A did not understand that he had a valid reason for going outside the 
chain of command, which was that he was being processed for another government 
agency. He also testified that his clearance eligibility elevation had “nothing to do with him 
[MSGT A ]” and he (MSGT A ) had “no call on that.” (Tr. 134 -138, 180-181, 191- 192; 
Answer 1; Answer 2; GE 4-6; AE M) 
MSGT A testified that Applicant became enraged when he told him he was being 
released. Applicant told MSGT A that he was making a huge mistake, that none of this 
was his fault, and he did not do anything wrong. After letting him vent, MSGT A told 
Applicant his decision was final, and that Applicant needed to pack his belongings 
because he would be escorted off the base in an hour. He asked a service member to 
escort Applicant while he packed his things, and to make sure that he did not go anywhere 
he was not supposed to go. At some point later that day, the J -2 of JTF came to his 
compound and showed him a map of MSGT A’s JTF compound and other task force 
compounds on base. MSGT A considered at least some of the information on this map to 
be classified. His understanding was that Applicant, in an attempt to file a complaint, had 
drawn the map and given it to a military police officer who MSGT A thought did not have 
a need to know this information. MSGT A believed providing this map to the military police 
officer constituted spillage. (Tr. 49-55, 97-100; AE FF) 
Applicant testified that  after  he was released by MSGT A  from  JTF, he decided t o  
report MSGT A for allowing alcohol consumption and storage on  JTF’s  compound.  On  
September 10, 2019,  after  JTF  released him, but before he flew home, Applicant filed a  
complaint with the CID against MSGT A for storing and consuming alcohol on base. He  
claimed that  he knew the CID agents to whom he reported this information had security  
clearance eligibility, and they told  him that once he reported it, he had to draw them  a  
map  to assist in the investigation of  his claim.  He also claimed that the information in the  
map was not classified because of the nationalities of  others  who access  the  JTF  
compound. He claimed that MSGT A  had been tipped off  about his  complaint  and moved  
the alcohol, so that CID did not find it when they looked. He claimed that Company  A was  
required to investigate the storing and use of  alcohol,  but it  did not.  He also claimed that  
armed service  members consuming alcohol on base made him fearful and uncomfortable.  
The CID agent confirmed in writing that he asked Applicant to draw the map.  (Tr. 142 -
146,  192;  Answer 1; Answer 2;  GE 4;  AE FF)  
MSGT A testified that shortly after he told Applicant to pack his things and await 
being escorted off base, he was sitting beside his senior intelligence officer, who showed 
him texts that Applicant was sending to him. MSGT A testified that at first the texts he 
saw were pleading with the senior intelligence officer not to release him, but wh en the 
senior intelligence officer did not respond, the texts became angry in nature. MSGT A 
recalled that Applicant texted that they would regret their decision, and he believed 
Applicant used the word “infidel” in one of the messages. He acknowledged that his 
memory was fuzzy as to the precise language he saw in the texts, including the use of 
“infidel.” MSGT A testified that he perceived some of the information in the texts as threats 
and it reinforced his decision to release Applicant from JTF. He and the senior intelligence 
officer called Company A’s linguist manager and told him about these text messages, and 
that they considered them to be threats. (Tr. 55-60, 100-104) 
12 
 
 
 
    
   
 
   
    
   
  
  
 
     
 
      
   
   
   
  
 
    
    
    
    
  
       
    
   
 
      
       
    
   
     
 
       
   
     
 
     
  
  
 
    
  
   
   
 
 
Applicant testified that he did not send any text messages to anyone after JTF 
released him back to Company A. He testified that after he was released, he checked his 
work cell phone back in with JTF, so he could not have sent texts. He did not keep the 
receipt for turning his JTF phone back in. He also testified that he would not use the term 
“infidel,” because it is culturally and religiously offensive to him. He accused MSGT A of 
lying about this incident. He claimed that MSGT A was embarrassed about being accused 
of drinking and storing alcohol, so he made up the story about the threatening text 
messages. (Tr. 148-151, 190-192) 
MSGT A testified that he thought Applicant resented him because he was his 
supervisor despite being younger than Applicant. He said he found Applicant to be 
dishonest and gave an example of Applicant telling the security office that he needed a 
security account for a special project with MSGT A, which was fabricated. He does not 
believe Applicant should be granted security clearance eligibility. He testified that he did 
not have any animosity toward Applicant and that, outside the personnel issues described 
herein, Applicant’s work was fine. (Tr. 55-60, 100-104) 
Applicant testified that he had no personnel issues at Company A before MSGT A 
became his supervisor in early July 2025. He stated that his performance was 
outstanding. He testified that he had 14 or 15 military supervisors prior to MSGT A but 
was never counseled by any of them. He disagreed with the veracity of the reasons that 
JTF and Company A gave for releasing him and terminating his employment , 
respectively. He provided an e-mail from a company notifying him that he had scored the 
highest the sender had ever seen on an Arabic test, which was presumably a proficiency 
test. (Tr. 122-126; GE 5, 6; AE A) 
Applicant received various forms of recognition and awards while he was in the 
military. For example, he was entered into the rolls of the Order of the Combat Spur, and 
he was awarded an Army Good Conduct Medal, an Army Commendation Medal, and his 
unit was awarded an Army Superior Unit Award. He also received various military training 
certificates and intelligence analyst certifications. (AE C, G and DD) 
Applicant’s wife wrote a letter, dated August 2, 2025. In the letter, she wrote that 
Applicant is a great husband and dad and puts his family’s needs before his own. She 
says that they have a healthy marriage, and she is very happy with him. (AE HH) 
Another individual , who shares much the same background as Applicant and 
worked with him at Company A, said that Applicant is professional, hardworking, and 
successful. The writer noted that other linguists would often show jealousy toward anyone 
that was successful and claimed that other linguists would file baseless complaints 
against him and Applicant, who were both prior U.S. military occupation specialists. This 
individual opined that Applicant’s employment issues with Company A were a result of 
the tension with other linguists and their jealousy over Applicant’s success. The writer 
attested to Applicant’s honesty, work ethic, and loyalty, and said he has always conducted 
himself with integrity. (AE II) 
13 
 
 
    
     
   
   
 
  
  
  
     
     
 
    
   
    
    
   
  
    
 
 
    
 
      
 
 
   
      
    
    
 
 
    
  
  
      
   
 
 
   
   
    
  
      
      
 
Applicant provided various other character -reference letters . In one, the writer 
noted the high quality of Applicant’s work, that he complies with workplace rules and 
regulations, and that he was well -liked. Another, the deputy director of an agency for 
which Applicant provided support as a linguist overseas, expressed gratitude for 
Applicant’s services and noted the accuracy of his translations, cultural awareness, and 
diplomacy. He recommended Applicant as a linguist “with no hesitation.” Another noted 
his patience, professionalism, sense of humor, and easygoing nature. Another writer 
noted his skills with intelligence methods, especially with open- source material, and his 
mentorship. Most of these character-reference letters do not note whether the writer was 
aware of the SOR allegations. (AE I, J, Z, AA, BB, CC) 
In November 2020, Applicant was awarded security clearance eligibility with a 
waiver because of security concerns surrounding his family members who were citizens 
and residents of Iraq. After this security eligibility award with a waiver, he contacted his 
member of Congress to help him have the waiver removed, but he was unsuccessful in 
doing so. He also contacted his member of Congress about his removal from Company 
A and made two additional complaints through various DOD Inspector General Offices in 
January and March 2020. The DOD responded that Company A was the adjudicating 
entity for the termination of Applicant’s employment and not the U.S. Government. (AE A, 
N) 
In April 2024, Applicant’s current employer informed him that he passed a 
polygraph test given to him by DOD in relation to his security clearance eligibility. The 
contents of what was discussed during this polygraph are not in evidence. (AE A) 
Policies  
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines (AG ), which became 
effective on June 8, 2017. 
When evaluating an applicant ’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
14 
 
 
 
 
   
     
 
      
     
  
    
     
 
    
   
   
  
    
     
    
    
 
   
 
    
  
 
 
    
 
  
     
    
 
   
 
  
     
 
 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline  E, Personal  Conduct  
The security concern for personal conduct is set out in AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to 
cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 16. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) deliberate omission, concealment,  or f
 alsification of relevant facts from  
any personnel  security questionnaire, personal  history  statement,  or similar  
form  used to conduct investigations, determine employment qualifications,  
award benefits  or status, determine security clearance eligibility or  
trustworthiness,  or award fiduciary responsibilities;  
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
    
    
    
    
  
  
  
      
   
  
 
(b) deliberately providing false or  mi sleading information; or concealing or  
omitting information, concerning relevant  facts to an employer, investigator,  
security official, competent  medical or mental health professional involved  
in making a recommendation relevant  to a national security eligibility  
determination,  or other official government representative;  
(c) credible adverse information in several adjudicative issue areas that is  
not s
ufficient for an adverse determination under any other single guideline,  
but which, when considered as  a whole, supports a whole -person  
assessment of questionable judgment, untrustworthiness, unreliability, lack  
of candor,  unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations, or other  
characteristics indicating that the individual may not properly safeguard  
classified or sensitive information; and  
(d) credible adverse information that is not explicitly covered under any  
other  gui
deline and may not be sufficient by itself for an adverse  
determination,  but which, when combined with all available information,  
supports a whole- person assessment  of questionable judgment,  
untrustworthiness,  unreliability, lack of candor, unwillingness to comply with 
rules and regulations,  or other characteristics indicating that the individual  
may  not properly safeguard classified or sensitive information.  This  
includes, but is not limited to, consideration of:  
(1) untrustworthy or  unr eliable behavior to include breach of client  
confidentiality, release of proprietary information, unauthorized  
release of sensitive corporate or government  protected information;  
(2) any disruptive, violent,  or ot her inappropriate behavior;  
(3)  a pattern of disho nesty or rule violations;  and  
(4) evidence of significant  mi suse of  Government or other  
employer’s time or resources.  
The Gov
ernment must provide substantial evidence of Applicant’s alleged 
employment poor performance and misconduct, alleged falsification of security clearance 
eligibility information in the 2022 SCA, the CI Interview, and the 2019 SCA, and the 
alleged commission of rape. This evidentiary standard means it must provide more than 
a scintilla of evidence but less than a preponderance of evidence. Given that Applicant 
denied all the disqualifying conduct contained in the SOR and Amended SOR, a credibility 
determination is crucial to my decision in this case, including whether the Government 
has met its aforementioned burden . This credibility determination is more nuanced than 
simply only believing Applicant or only believing the sources of evidence of the allegations 
that are leveled against him, because the reliability of the evidence of disqualifying 
conduct varies. 
16 
 
 
  
   
  
    
 
   
    
  
 
   
   
   
  
   
  
  
    
  
   
   
   
   
 
    
  
   
     
    
  
 
      
    
  
 
  
   
  
 
      
 
    
      
   
 
   
 
For example, some of the evidence of Applicant’s alleged misconduct, such as any 
transcription errors he made in 2019, evidence that he was late for work or out drinking 
all night, were based upon information provided to MSGT A by sources of unknown 
reliability. However, certain other evidence, such as the evidence MSGT A provided 
based on his first-hand knowledge tends to be more reliable. When MSGT A’s testimony 
directly contradicts Applicant’s, both cannot be true, so I have to choose one version over 
the other. In these instances, I find MSGT A’s testimony is more credible than Applicant’s. 
I have several reasons for this finding. 
First, and most importantly, I note that some of Applicant’s explanations about his 
reason for not being more forthcoming with potentially damaging information strained 
credulity, were misleading by omission, or were inconsistent with the evidence. For 
example, Applicant claimed that , during the CI Interview, he told the interviewer in 
response to two separate questions that he left his employment with Company A because 
his contract ended, as that was the only official information that Company A provided him 
at the time. These two responses were untruthful by omission. By the time of the CI 
Interview, he knew that he had been released by JTF for disciplinary reasons from 
multiple sources, including the September 17, 2019 e-mail notifying him of the IR. He may 
have disagreed with the validity of the reasons for which he was released, but he knew 
that, while technically true, his employment with Company A did not end only because his 
contract ended. It ended because JTF released him back to Company A for reasons that 
could be detrimental to Applicant, so he had motivation to avoid revealing them. 
Applicant also was not entirely truthful about the reasons that he provided for being 
terminated by Company A in his 2022 SCA. In relation to his reason for leaving Company 
A, he wrote that he was discriminated against because of his race and national ori gin. 
While I make no finding about his discrimination claim, what is clear is that he knew that 
Company A released him for other reasons related to his performance, more specifically 
those listed in the MFR. However, he deliberately chose not to include that information in 
the 2022 SCA. Instead, he only presented the version most favorable to him without 
mentioning JTF’s reasons for releasing him or Company A’s reasons for terminating his 
employment. A security clearance investigation is not a forum for an applicant to split 
hairs or parse the truth narrowly. The government has a compelling interest in protecting 
and safeguarding classified information. That compelling interest includes the 
government's legitimate interest in being able to make sound decisions, based on 
complete and accurate information, about who will be granted access to classified 
information. An applicant who deliberately fails to give full, frank, and candid answers to 
the government in connection with a security clearance investigation or adjudication 
interferes with the integrity of the industrial security program. ISCR Case No. 01- 03132 
at 3 (App. Bd. Aug. 8, 2002) 
The CI Interview also revealed another unaddressed discrepancy in Applicant’s 
testimony. As part of his argument to prove that he was not drinking alcohol while working 
for Company A and JTF in 2019, he claimed GERD, that he had since 2012, prevented 
him from consuming alcohol. However, just six months later, he told the interviewer in the 
CI Interview that he consumes one to two glasses of wine per week. 
17 
 
 
     
     
      
  
   
  
  
 
       
   
 
    
   
   
     
  
   
  
   
 
     
 
    
  
 
       
   
  
     
     
 
    
   
  
     
  
 
    
 
     
    
 
  
       
    
    
 
Next, Applicant has greater motivation to be untruthful. He knows that his 
reputation, security clearance eligibility, and possibly his employment , are impacted by 
the outcome of this hearing. MSGT A has less motivation to be untruthful. While he has 
some motivation to protect his reputation, he has no other discernible motivation to be 
less than forthcoming. Moreover, MSGT A felt strongly enough about telling his version 
of events that he agreed to testify about his experience with Applicant despite having little 
discernible ulterior motive for doing so. 
Finally, I found Applicant rarely, if ever, admitted fault and consistently placed the 
blame on others when things did not go his way. For example, the DOD made a mistake 
when they granted his security clearance eligibility with a waiver because of his foreign 
citizen and resident family members. The female military member who claimed he 
sexually harassed her only did so as a quid pro quo with MSGT A to avoid her getting in 
trouble for another infraction. He fell out with MSGT A because other linguists had it out 
for him. His former mother- in-law and sister -in-law wanted his ex-wife to file false rape 
charges against him. MSGT A had a personal vendetta against him and fabricated JTF’s 
allegations against him. These alleged conspiracies against him by multiple and varied 
parties provide a less likely explanation than his personal responsibility. While Applicant 
offered character-reference evidence attesting to his truthfulness and reliability, most of 
these letters did not indicate the writer was aware of the allegations involving his alleged 
dishonesty, which lessens the probative value of that evidence. 
Given these considerations, in SOR ¶ 1.a, the Government alleged that Company 
A terminated Applicant from employment in September 2019 for failing to adapt to 
position, bypassing military chain of command, and making multiple unwanted advances 
toward a U.S. military female. It also alleged that Applicant is ineligible for rehire. There 
is sufficient credible evidence in the record to prove that Company A terminated Applicant 
for these reasons and that it deemed him not eligible for rehire. With respect to the 
evidence of the underlying conduct, I find there is sufficient evidence in the form of MSGT 
A’s testimony to show that Applicant, against MSGT A’s explicit instructions, went outside 
the chain of command when he contacted the JTF security office twice without notifying 
MSGT A. I find that he knew he was supposed to notify MSGT A before contacting the 
intelligence office but ignored these instructions. His testimony that going to the 
intelligence office had “nothing to do with” MSGT A and MSGT A had “no call on that,” 
indicates that he chose to ignore MSGT A’s instructions because he thought he knew 
better. 
While the phrase “failure to adapt to position” is somewhat vague and ambiguous, 
going outside the chain of command could be construed as falling into that broad category 
of conduct. I find there is sufficient evidence to show that he failed to adapt to position 
with Company A by going outside of his military chain of command. While I find that 
Applicant stopped pursuing the female soldier after he was counseled not to, I also find 
that he made multiple unwanted advances toward her, as evidenced by the content in the 
text messages, by MSGT A’s testimony of her discussion with him, and her memo that 
he described. The SOR allegations in SOR ¶ 1.a establish the disqualifying conditions in 
AG ¶ 16(d). 
18 
 
 
   
   
 
   
    
 
     
 
  
  
   
  
      
 
  
 
   
     
 
    
    
    
    
   
 
    
  
 
 
  
 
 
      
      
 
  
   
    
    
    
    
 
    
 
        
 
The Government has not provided sufficient evidence to prove that Applicant 
smelled women’s undergarments in the laundry room of the JTF compound as it alleged 
in SOR ¶ 1.b. The only first -person source of this information is from an individual who 
was convicted of dishonest and duplicitous behavior. Her statement cannot be relied upon 
given Applicant’s denial. I find for Applicant with respect to SOR ¶ 1.b. 
There is uncontroverted evidence that Applicant drew a map that contained 
information about locations within a U.S. military installation. However, there is insufficient 
evidence to prove that the map contained classified information or that it was 
unauthorized. While MSGT A testified that he believed the map contained classified 
information, there is no evidence that he is the classification authority for this information. 
Additionally, there is no evidence that Applicant’s reporting of the allegation abo ut the 
storage of alcohol to the CID agent was inappropriate, and the CID agent asked him to 
draw the map in the course of his investigation duties. I find for Applicant with respect to 
SOR ¶ 1.c. 
Applicant’s statement to the interviewer during the CI Interview about drinking wine 
undermines his denial of the allegations in SOR ¶ 1.d. However, there are no first -hand 
accounts of Applicant consuming alcohol while he worked for the joint task force, partying 
all night, or being late for work. Moreover, MSGT A’s observation that Applicant had 
bloodshot eyes and distended pupils could be explained by other factors such as allergies 
or another medical condition. Moreover, MSGT A acknowledged that he never noticed 
Applicant smelling of alcohol. I find there is insufficient evidence of the allegations 
contained in SOR ¶ 1.d and find for Applicant with respect to those allegations. 
Given that MSGT A testified that he saw threatening text messages sent to his 
supervisor from Applicant, I find that there is substantial evidence that he sent these 
messages. However, given MSGT A’s uncertainty that Applicant used the word “infidel,” 
I find that there is insufficient evidence that Applicant texted that word, in particular. The 
proven allegations contained in SOR ¶ 1.e establish the disqualifying conditions in AG ¶ 
16(d). 
I find that despite her recantation, there is substantial evidence to prove that 
Applicant raped his wife in 2012. There is a police report and a CID report that find there 
is probable cause that he raped her. While the police report was written before she 
recanted, the CID report was written afterwards. Moreover, I find that his statement to 
police the day after the alleged rape occurred questioning whether it is possible to rape 
your wife casts doubt on the accuracy of his denials. His statement to his wife that he “did 
not rape her, she is his wife” contained in the police report also casts doubt on his 
understanding of what behavior constitutes rape. This conduct establishes the 
disqualifying conditions in AG ¶ 16(c). 
As I indicated in my earlier analysis of Applicant’s credibility, I find that he 
deliberately falsified facts regarding the reasons for leaving Company A in the 2022 SCA 
and the CI Interview. AG ¶¶ 16(a) and 16(b) are established for SOR ¶¶ 1.g and 1.h. In 
the 2019 SCA, given that he acknowledged, albeit with respect to the wrong employer, 
19 
 
 
     
    
 
     
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
       
  
   
  
    
       
        
   
 
 
     
     
    
  
 
     
 
 
  
   
   
   
  
there were allegations of misconduct leveled against him and that he was fired, I find that 
he did not deliberately falsify the 2019 SCA. I find for Applicant with respect to SOR ¶ 1.i. 
AG ¶ 17 provides conditions that could mitigate personal conduct security 
concerns. The following mitigating conditions potentially apply in Applicant's case: 
(a) the individual  made pr
 ompt,  good-faith efforts to correct the omission,  
concealment,  or falsification before being confronted with the facts;  
(c) the offense is so minor, or so much time has passed, or the behavior is  
so inf
requent, or it happened under such unique circumstances that  it  is  
unlikely to recur  and  does not cast doubt  on the individual's reliability,  
trustworthiness, or  good judgment;  
(d) the individual has acknowledged the behavior and obtained counseling  
to cha
nge the behavior or  taken other positive steps to alleviate the  
stressors, circumstances or  factors that  contributed to untrustworthy,  
unreliable, or  other inappropriate behavior, and such behavior is  unlikely to  
recur; and  
(f) the information was unsubstantiated or from a source of  quest ionable  
reliability.  
With r
espect to the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.e, and 1.f, it has been at least six 
years, and in some cases 12 years, since Applicant engaged in the disqualifying conduct 
listed therein . Applicant’s sexual misconduct occurred once while he was unhappily 
married and possibly did not understand the rules of consent. He testified that he now 
understands the need for consent, regardless of whether it involves his wife. His 
employment misconduct occurred during a two- month timespan. There is significant 
evidence that he has performed well at work after his employment with Company A, and 
there is no evidence that he has engaged in any misconduct . I find that MC ¶ 17(c) fully 
applies to SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.e, and 1.f, and I find for Applicant with respect to those SOR 
allegations. 
I have already found for Applicant with respect to any SOR allegations that I found 
to be unsubstantiated or from a source of questionable reliability , and I have explained 
why I found those that remain have been sufficiently proven. MC ¶ 17(f) does not apply 
to the remaining SOR allegations. 
Applicant’s deliberate omission and failure to include detrimental information in the 
2022 SCA and the CI Interview are not mitigated. This conduct is not minor, as 
deliberately omitting or falsifying required information during the security clearance 
process strikes at the heart of the process, which relies on candid and honest reporting. 
There is insufficient evidence that he made a prompt, good- faith effort to corr ect his 
omission, concealment, or falsification before being confronted with the facts. Instead, at 
the hearing, he continued to attempt to justify his failure to report required information 
with reasons that lacked believability. These continued incredible justification attempts 
20 
 
 
   
       
  
 
  
 
    
   
 
 
   
  
   
   
  
     
   
 
 
      
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
        
      
 
 
 
mean he has also failed to show that he acknowledged his dishonest behavior. None of 
the personal conduct mitigating conditions apply to the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.g and 1.h. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) T he nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. I have incorporated my 
comments under Guideline E in my whole-person analysis. I have considered Applicant’s 
honorable military service, including in a combat zone, and his positive character -
references. Overall, I find that he has not mitigated the Guideline E security concerns as 
I have doubts regarding his reliability, trustworthiness, and good judgment. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline E:  
  AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.f:  For Applicant  
Subparagraphs  1.g and 1.h:  Against Applicant  
Subparagraph 1.i:  For Applicant  
Conclusion  
It is not cle
arly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for 
a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
21 
 
 
 
 
______
__________________ 
Benjamin R. Dorsey 
Administrative Judge 
 
 22 