 
 
 
                                                              
  
                      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
    DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS       
           
             
 
 
   
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
      
  
     
 
   
     
     
    
    
    
  
 
      
       
     
    
  
______________ 
______________ 
In  the matter  of:  )  
 )  
    )   ISCR Case  No. 24-01971  
    )   
Applicant  for Security Clearance  )  
 
A
ppearances  
For Government: Karen Moreno-Sayles, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
09/17/2025 
Decision  
BORGSTROM, Eric H., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not mitigate the security concerns arising from his delinquent debts. 
Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
On January 3, 2025, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
(DCSA) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns 
under Guideline F (financial considerations) . The DCSA acted under Executive Order 
(EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as 
amended; Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel 
Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the 
adjudicative guidelines (AG) implemented by the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
In Applicant’s undated response to the SOR (Answer) , he denied SOR ¶¶ 1.a., 
1.e., and 1.f., and he admitted the debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.b., 1.c., 1.d., 1.g., and 1.h. He 
claimed to have filed disputes on some accounts (SOR ¶¶ 1.a., 1.e., and 1.f.), initiated 
payment plans on other accounts (SOR ¶¶ 1.b.-1.d.), and to be attempting to refinance 
his mortgage loan (SOR ¶ 1.g.). He attached no documentary evidence to corroborate 
 
 
     
   
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
     
    
   
      
     
    
 
  
    
  
  
 
    
 
    
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
his claims. He requested a decision by an administrative judge of the Defense Office of 
Hearings and Appeals based upon the written record in lieu of a hearing. (Answer) 
On May 1, 2025, Department Counsel submitted a file of relevant material (FORM) 
and provided a complete copy to Applicant. Department Counsel’s FORM included 
Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 9. In the FORM, Department Counsel provided 
Applicant notice that failure to respond to the FORM may be considered a waiver of any 
objections to the admissibility of the evidentiary exhibits. 
On May 13, 2025, Applicant received the FORM and its attachments. A cover letter 
included with the FORM advised Applicant that he had 30 days from the date of receipt 
to file any objections or to provide any additional information in support of his clearance 
eligibility. He did not submit a response to the FORM nor object to any of the 
Government’s evidentiary exhibits. The case was assigned to me on September 2, 2025. 
Government’s Exhibits 1 through 9 are admitted into evidence without objection. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 48 years old. He graduated from high school in 1995. He has been 
married since 2002, and he has two children (ages 21 and 17) and one stepchild (age 
26). (GE 2) 
From February 2017 to July 2019, Applicant was employed full time as a facilities 
technician for a private company. From July 2019 to December 2019, he was employed 
full time as a facilities manager for a private company. From December 2019 to November 
2023, he was employed full time as a building engineer for a private company. Since 
November 2023, he has been employed full time as a facilities manager with a DOD 
contractor. From May 2009 to November 2021, he also served part-time in the Army 
National Guard, from which he was honorably discharged. (GE 2, GE 4) 
On May 6, 2009, Applicant completed and certified an Electronic Questionnaire for  
Investigations Processing (e-QIP). Under Section 26 –  Financial Record, he reported a  
$13,000 debt  for a vehicle repossession and having filed a Chapter 7  bankruptcy petition  
(SOR  ¶ 1.h.). On December 5, 2023, Applicant  submitted an updated  e-QIP. Under  
Section 26  –  Financial  Record, he reported one  delinquent  account (SOR  ¶ 1.b.). (GE 2-
3)  
On January 24, 2024,  Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator on  
behalf of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). He confirmed his reported  
delinquent account  (SOR  ¶ 1.b.) and explained that he had been unable to save enough  
money to set  up a payment plan. During the interview, he was confronted about SOR  ¶¶  
1.a. and 1.e.,  of which he claimed to be unaware. He was also confronted about SOR  ¶¶ 
1.c., 1.d., 1.f,  and 1.g., which he admitted and planned to resolve when he had sufficient  
funds.  He acknowledged his financial delinquencies, which he attributed to earning a low  
salary in 2020. (GE 4)  
2 
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
     
  
        
    
    
    
 
    
 
   
   
   
  
 
   
      
     
 
  
    
 
    
   
  
     
 
    
    
   
     
 
   
      
    
 
   
   
    
    
    
 
The SOR alleges financial considerations security concerns based upon seven 
delinquent consumer accounts and a Chapter 7 bankruptcy. The delinquent accounts are 
established by Applicant’s three credit bureau reports, from December 2023, September 
2024, and April 2025. 
SOR ¶ 1.a. This individual account was opened in October 2021, became 
delinquent in about August 2022, and was placed for collection in the approximate amount 
of $6,768. In his Answer, Applicant denied that this debt was his account; however, he 
has not provided any evidence showing that he has disputed this account with the creditor 
or the credit bureaus or that he has taken any steps to otherwise resolve this delinquent 
account. This debt is not resolved. (Answer; GE 7-9) 
SOR ¶ 1.b. This credit -card account was opened in November 2021, became 
delinquent in about November 2022, and was charged off in the approximate amount of 
$5,418. Applicant admitted this account in his e-QIP, during his security interview, and in 
his Answer. Although he claimed to have set up a payment plan, he provided no evidence 
corroborating his claim or showing that he has adhered to the payment plan. This debt 
is not resolved. (Answer; GE 2, 7-9) 
SOR ¶ 1.c. This credit-card account was opened in May 2021. As of December 
2023, this account was at least 120 days past due in the approximate amount of $351. 
This account has been placed for collection in the approximate amount of $1,448. In his 
Answer, he admitted this delinquent account and claimed to be on a payment plan. He 
did not provide any evidence to corroborate his claimed plan or any payments in 
adherence to this plan. This debt is not resolved. (Answer; GE 7-9) 
SOR ¶ 1.d. This credit-card account was placed for collection in the approximate 
amount of $1,308. In his Answer, he admitted this delinquent account and claimed to be 
on a payment plan. He did not provide any evidence to corroborate his claimed plan or 
any payments in adherence to this plan. This debt is not resolved. (Answer; GE 7-9) 
SOR ¶ 1.e. This personal loan was incurred in March 2022 in the approximate 
amount of $15,000, and it was delinquent as of July 2022. According to Applicant’s credit 
reports, this account was placed for collection in December 2022 in the approximate 
amount of $16,758. In his Answer, Applicant claimed that he had filed a dispute on this 
account because it was not his account. Applicant’s April 2025 credit report lists a past -
due balance of $14,673. There is no evidence to corroborate Applicant’s claimed dispute 
with the creditor or the credit bureaus or that he has taken any steps to otherwise resolve 
this delinquent account. This debt is not resolved. (Answer; GE 7-9) 
SOR ¶ 1.f. This credit-card account was placed for collection in the approximate 
amount of $1,496. According to Applicant’s April 30, 2025 credit report, this account 
remains unpaid. This credit report notes that an investigation was completed , and the 
account remained on Applicant’s credit report as delinquent following the dispute. This 
debt is not resolved. (GE 8-9) 
3 
 
 
    
  
    
  
   
  
 
 
      
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
   
  
    
 
 
    
  
  
      
   
 
 
    
 
  
  
    
      
 
 
 
  
   
 
     
  
  
SOR ¶ 1.g. This mortgage account was opened in July 2020. As of December 
2023, this account was 60 days past due in the approximate amount of $6,385. In his 
Answer, Applicant claimed to be refinancing this delinquent account; however, he 
provided no evidence to corroborate his claim. His April 30, 2025 credit report noted that 
foreclosure proceedings had started on this account, which was listed as 180 days past 
due in the approximate amount of $50,473. This debt is not resolved. (Answer; GE 7, 
GE 9) 
SOR ¶ 1.h. On August 19, 2005, Applicant filed a voluntary petition for Chapter 7 
bankruptcy. The petition listed liabilities in the approximate amount of $27,142. On 
November 30, 2005, the dischargeable debts were discharged. (Answer; GE 5, GE 6) 
The Government submitted a credit report, dated May 16, 2009. This credit report 
lists two delinquent vehicle loans in the approximate amount of $10,414 and $10,632. 
Both vehicle loans were incurred after the bankruptcy discharge. This credit report also 
listed several additional accounts which had been charged off or placed for collection 
since the bankruptcy discharge. (GE 6) 
Applicant did not provide any information about his monthly expenses and monthly 
income, so I was unable to ascertain if he was able to maintain his monthly financial 
obligations. There is no evidence of any credit counseling. 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant ’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
4 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
     
  
   
  
  
  
 
   
 
    
 
 
 
 
        
 
  
    
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
    
   
    
   
 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to sensitive information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off-duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
sensitive information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard sensitive information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of sensitive information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline F: Financial Considerations  
The security concern for financial considerations is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one’s means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. . . . 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a)  i
nability to satisfy  debts; and  
(c)  a hi story  of not  meeting financial obligations.  
The G
overnment established Applicant’s seven delinquent consumer accounts, 
totaling approximately $81,584, according to the balances on his April 2025 credit report. 
Applicant’s 2005 bankruptcy also demonstrates a history of not meeting financial 
obligations. AG ¶¶ 19(a) and 19(c) apply. 
5 
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
    
   
  
   
     
     
 
  
   
     
  
  
 
  
    
  
 
  
Conditions that could mitigate the financial considerations security concerns are 
provided under AG ¶ 20. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
und
er such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good judgment;   
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial  pr oblem were largely beyond  
the person’s control  (e.g., loss of employment, a business  downturn,  
unexpected medical emergency, a death,  divorce, or separation, clear  
victimization by  predatory  lending pract ices, or identity theft),  and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
(c) the individual  has  received or is receiving financial counseling for the  
problem from  a legitimate and credible source, such as a non- profit credit  
counseling service,  and there are clear indications that the problem is being  
resolved or is under control;  
(d) the individual has initiated and is adhering to a good-fa ith  effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  and  
(e) the individual has  a r easonable basis to  dispute the legitimacy  of the 
past-due debt which is  the cause of the problem and provides documented  
proof to substantiate the basis of  the dispute or provides evidence of  actions  
to resolve the issue.  
Appl
icant bears the burdens of production and persuasion in mitigation. An 
applicant is not held to a standard of perfection in his or her debt -resolution efforts or 
required to be debt-free. “Rather, all that is required is than an applicant act responsibly 
given his circumstances and develop a reasonable plan for repayment, accompanied by 
‘concomitant conduct,’ that is, actions which evidence a serious intent to effectuate the 
plan.” ISCR Case No. 15-02903 at 3 (App. Bd. Mar. 9, 2017). See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 
13-00987 at 3, n.5 (App. Bd. Aug. 14, 2014). 
Applicant’s April 2025 credit report illustrates that his seven delinquent accounts 
remain delinquent, and his financial problems are ongoing. There is no evidence of credit 
counseling. AG ¶¶ 20(a) and 20(c) do not apply. 
Applicant attributed his financial problems to his low income. He has not provided 
any information about his monthly income and expenses, either during the period these 
accounts became delinquent or his current monthly finances. He repeatedly claimed that 
two accounts were not his accounts (SOR ¶¶ 1.a. and 1.e.); however, he did not provide 
evidence of actions to dispute these accounts with the creditors or to otherwise resolve 
the issues. He also claimed payment plans, but he did not provide documentary evidence 
of the payment plans or payments in adherence to his purported plans. Rather, his April 
2025 credit report shows a worsening situation with his mortgage loan, which is now in 
6 
 
 
   
   
    
    
 
 
 
   
    
     
     
 
      
   
   
  
   
     
  
 
   
  
  
     
  
    
  
 
 
       
    
 
     
 
      
 
foreclosure proceedings. He has not provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate 
circumstances beyond his control that contributed to his financial problems or that he has 
acted responsibly to address and resolve his financial delinquencies. AG ¶¶ 20(b), 20(d), 
and 20(e) do not apply. Applicant did not mitigate the financial considerations security 
concerns. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information by considering the totality of the 
applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should 
consider the nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; ( 5) the  extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. I considered the potentially 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances 
surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under Guideline F and the 
factors in AG ¶ 2(d) in this whole-person analysis. 
Applicant served honorably in the Army National Guard for over 12 years. 
Notwithstanding his military service, he did not provide sufficient evidence to demonstrate 
circumstances beyond his control, that he acted responsibly, that he established payment 
plans, or that he had adhered to those payment plans. Based upon the record evidence, 
doubts remain as to his financial responsibility, reliability, and judgment. He did not 
mitigate the financial considerations security concerns. Eligibility for access to classified 
information is denied. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  Guideline F:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 1.a.-1.h
 .:  Agai
nst Applicant 
7 
 
 
  
   
     
       
 
 
 
 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, I conclude 
that it is not clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant Applicant ’s 
eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Eric H. Borgstrom 
Administrative Judge 
8 