 
 
  
 
  
        
         
           
             
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
  
     
  
   
  
  
    
    
     
     
  
  
 
  
  
 
___________ 
___________ 
DEPART
MENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of:  )  
 )  
                )   ISCR Case No.  24-02085  
  )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance   )  
 
App
earances  
For Gov
ernment: Mark D. Lawton, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
07/01/2025 
Decision 
HARVEY, Mark, Administrative Judge: 
Guideline E (personal conduct) security concerns are not mitigated. Eligibility for 
access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On December 14, 2018, and February 2, 2024, Applicant completed and signed 
Electronic Questionnaires for Investigations Processing (e- QIP) or security clearance 
applications (SCA). (Government Exhibit (GE) 1 ; GE 2 ) On January 14, 202 5, the 
Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) issued a statement of reasons 
(SOR) to Applicant under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified 
Information within Industry, February 20, 1960; Department of Defense ( DOD) Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (Directive), 
January 2, 1992; and Security Executive Agent Directive 4, establishing in Appendix A 
the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to 
Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AGs), effective June 8, 
2017. (Hearing Exhibit (HE) 2) 
The SOR detailed reasons why the DCSA did not find under the Directive that it is 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant or continue a security 
clearance for Applicant and recommended referral to an administrative judge to 
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
    
   
    
 
     
  
    
  
    
 
 
  
 
 
    
   
 
   
   
 
   
  
      
     
  
      
 
 
 
     
      
    
    
     
     
 
    
  
 
    
determine whether a clearance should be granted, continued, denied, or revoked. 
Specifically, the SOR set forth security concerns arising under Guideline E . (HE 2) On 
January 20, 2025, Applicant provided a response to the SOR and requested a hearing. 
(HE 3) On February 20, 2025, Department Counsel was ready to proceed. 
On March 3, 2025, the case was assigned to me. On March 4, 2025, the Defense 
Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a Notice and scheduled Applicant’s 
hearing on April 15, 2025. The hearing was held as scheduled on April 15, 2025. 
Department Counsel offered seven exhibits into evidence; Applicant did not 
provide any exhibits for admission into evidence; there were no objections; and I admitted 
all proffered exhibits into evidence. (Transcript (Tr.) 14-15; GE 1-GE 7) On April 24, 2025, 
DOHA received a transcript of the hearing. No post -hearing exhibits were offered into 
evidence. (Tr. 50) 
Some details were excluded to protect Applicant’s right to privacy. Specific 
information is available in the cited exhibits and transcript. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant admitted in part and denied in part the allegations alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 
1.b, and 1. c, and he denied the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.d and 1.e. He also provided 
extenuating and mitigating information. He denied that he made intentionally false 
statements to the DOD . His admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Additional 
findings follow. 
Applicant is a 64-year-old senior program manager who has worked for a defense 
contractor for 20 months . (Tr. 6 -7) A security clearance would be beneficial to his 
employment; however, it is not required. (Tr. 19) In 1978, he graduated from high school. 
(Tr. 6) In 1982, he received a bachelor’s degree in computer science, and in 1997, he 
received a master’s degree in information management. (Tr. 7) He has never served in 
the military. (Tr. 7) In 1985, he married, and his sons are ages 26 and 36, and his daughter 
is age 34. (Tr. 8) 
Personal Conduct  
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges Applicant was em ployed by companies T and B, and those 
employers issued two corrective action memos (CAM) to him in about 2016 and about 
2022 for engaging in inappropriate behaviors and communications that scared co-workers 
or caused them to fear for their safety. He was consequently fired in April 2022, and he 
is not eligible for rehire. Companies T and B are closely associated with each other. 
Companies T and B will be referred to as company T/B. 
The May 24, 2016 CAM states, “After an investigation it was deemed that on May 
17, 2016 you had inappropriate behaviors in the workplace during and after a phone call. 
Specifically you cursed and shadowed boxed scaring co- workers in the general area. ” 
(GE 4) His employer said in the CAM, “ You shall seek anger management assistance 
2 
 
 
   
  
 
   
      
     
        
   
 
  
 
 
     
        
  
 
  
   
 
     
 
      
 
  
   
  
    
   
      
 
 
      
     
 
from your medical provider. Any addition[al] behavior of this type will result in additional 
corrective action up to and including termination.” (GE 4) 
As to the 2016 CAM, Applicant said he did not “really remember” his behavior, and 
he “may have punched the air . . . out of frustration, but that was all. ” (Tr. 22) He 
discounted the seriousness of his behavior stating, “I’d find it difficult to understand why 
somebody is scared of shadowboxing, . . . unless they were [a] shadow.” (Tr. 22) He 
attended three anger management sessions. (Tr. 23) 
A company T/B report states: 
[O]n February 21,  2022,  [Applicant]  “became irate  and  slammed h is fist on 
the table af ter  [a coworker]  notified him of missing information.  [A coworker]  
told [Applicant]  he did not feel safe,  [Applicant]  replied;  “I bet you don’t.”  [He] 
admonished  [a coworker]  he does  not care about safety.  [Applicant]  said he 
does not give a “f  _ _ ck”  about anything else other than writing code.  
[Applicant]  stood up in front of  [a coworker]  and balled up his fist.  (GE 5 at  
10)  
The April of 2022 CAM issued in response to an incident documented in a February 
of 2022 report said he was discharged from his employment and explained: “It has been 
determined you have engaged in inappropriate behaviors. Specifically, you engaged in 
behaviors and communications in the workplace that caused another to fear for their 
safety and well -being. The company deems this unacceptable and in violation of a 
company policy.” (GE 5 at 9) 
A coworker said he asked Applicant, “ Don’t you want this aircraft to fly safely?” 
According to the coworker, Applicant yelled at the coworker, “I don’t care because it’s not 
my job to worry about safety,” adding “and it’s not your concern either.” (GE 5 at 12-13) 
Applicant said he confronted a coworker about his lack of focus on the job at hand 
and deviations from providing support for other departments. (Tr. 17) He also said the 
coworker seemed to be trying to make connections and receive possible employment in 
the safety section. (Tr. 29-30) Applicant told the coworker not to inspect the airframe for 
safety because that was not his job. (Tr. 30) He maintained that any allegation of the 
coworker that Applicant was endangering the airframe is untrue. (Tr. 29-30) 
Applicant  denied that  he made th e  statement about  not caring about  safety. (Tr. 
31)  He  said he was  angry at the coworker for  giving a higher  priority to safety  issues that  
were unrelated to his software d uties. (Tr. 32)  Contrary to the investigative report,  
Applicant  said the coworker  said,  “I do not feel comfortable,” not “I  do not feel safe.” (Tr.  
17, 33)  Applicant said,  he replied, “I’ll bet you  don’t.” (Tr. 17)  Applicant  said  management  
made an “exaggerated evaluation of  the intensity of the incident.”  (Tr. 17)  
SOR ¶ 1.b alleges Applicant was terminated from his employment with company 
O in about August 2016 for falling asleep at a client site. Applicant said: 
3 
 
 
     
       
  
   
   
      
   
    
     
  
  
 
   
     
    
     
    
 
 
      
     
     
  
 
 
  
  
 
[I]t was  a very, you know, unclear situation.  Was  I let go? They  just said,  
hey,  you don’t have a job here anymore. And  the person who I was  working 
with directly just said,  hey,  they just want  to end the contract. So now  
whether  that was because they  didn’t feel like I  . . .  really served a purpose  
there or  that the falling asleep  was a -- an offense, now that was not  -- that 
was  [an]  unwritten rule. That wasn’t a formal policy  that  -- of theirs. So that’s 
what makes it  –  that’s  why it was  unclear as to, you know  -- you know why  
I was let  go.  (Tr. 18)  
SOR ¶ 1.c alleges Applicant falsified material facts on his February 2, 2024 SCA. 
In “Section 13A - Employment Activities,” his SCA asked the following questions: “Have 
any of the following happened to you in the last seven (7) years?”; “ Fired from a job?”; 
“Quit after being told you would be fired?”; “ Have you left a job by mutual agreement 
following charges or allegations of misconduct?”; and “Left a job by mutual agreement 
following notice of unsatisfactory performance?”. Applicant answered yes but that he left 
employment with company T/B by mutual agreement following charges or allegations of 
misconduct. SOR ¶ 1.c alleges that he deliberately failed to disclose that information as 
set forth in subparagraph 1.a., above. In the comments of the SCA he said he engaged 
in “Inappropriate behavior to a subordinate. To[o] loud and aggressive in addressing poor 
performance.” (GE 2 at 13) 
Applicant said, “The word fired probably didn’t come up. I thought it was a mutual 
agreement, but maybe it wasn’t a mutual agreement really. Does that -- so was my job 
eliminated? Was I no longer -- did I no longer have a job there? That is correct, okay?” 
(Tr. 43; GE 2 at 12 -13) Eventually, h e said he did not leave by “mutual agreement” 
because he was fired. (Tr. 43) He acknowledged that he did not have a choice of whether 
to leave the employment. (Tr. 43) 
SOR ¶ 1.d alleges Applicant falsified material facts on his February 2, 2024 SCA. 
In his response to "Section 13A - Employment Activities,” For employment with company 
O, he said his reason for leaving the employment was a “lack of work.” SOR ¶ 1.d alleges 
he deliberately failed to disclose that information set forth in subparagraph 1 .b., above. 
(GE 2 at 18) 
Applicant’s April 12, 2024 OPM summary of interview states he was confronted 
with information about the termination of his employment from company O. The OPM 
summary of interview states: 
The Subject  did not list this correctly  because he considered this  a  
temporary employment. The Subject stated others who were involved in  this 
situation were unknown. The Subject was asked what  happened. The  
Subject stated he was  at a meeting . . . on  08/12/2016, when [company O]  
decided they did not  need him  as  a project manager.  When asked what  
proceeded the decision,  the Subject  volunteered that he had fallen asleep  
in the [off -site] meeting.  Some unknown person woke him up,  told him to  
leave the meeting, and  told the Subject,  “you don’t have a job here anymore.  
. . .” (GE  3 at  5)  
4 
 
 
  
     
  
   
     
    
     
  
  
     
   
 
    
     
   
     
     
   
 
 
     
        
     
         
   
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
   
    
   
    
   
  
  
    
 
 
  
  
Applicant was employed by company O for less than one month in August 2016. 
(Tr. 44) Several of company O’s employees were out late at night, and a manager warned 
the employees that anyone who fell asleep during the workday would be fired. (Tr. 45-46) 
Applicant fell asleep during a long presentation, and was told that he did not have a job 
anymore. (Tr. 46) Company O indicated in a document he was terminated the same day 
he fell asleep. (Tr. 46) And the reason for termination listed on that document was, “fell 
asleep at client site .” (Tr. 47) Applicant sai d he was not presented the company O 
document with the reason for termination. (Tr. 47) He said he was hired as a project 
manager and company O did not need a project manager because they were hiring staff 
augmentation. (Tr. 47) He agreed that falling asleep was a factor, but another factor was 
he was an unnecessary employee. (Tr. 48-49) 
SOR ¶ 1.e alleges Applicant falsified material facts during an April 18, 2019 Office 
of Personnel Management (OPM) personal subject interview, when he stated he did not 
have to attend anger management classes, when, in fact, he deliberately sought to 
conceal his referral to anger management. During a personal subject interview on April 
12, 2024, with an authorized investigator with the OPM, he stated he was referred to three 
anger management classes in a particular city at an unknown business with an unknown 
provider. 
Applicant’s April 18, 2018 OPM summary of interview states that Applicant told the 
investigator that because of the May 17, 2016 incident, he did not have to attend an anger 
management class, and that this incident only required a quick sit down with his manager 
in which he was told not to do it again . (Tr. 25; GE 3 at 14) Applicant said a manager 
suggested that he attend anger management. (Tr. 25) He did not view it as a requirement. 
(Tr. 25-26) 
Applicant said he was directed to a psychologist and not referred to anger 
management classes. (Tr. 18) The psychologist provided an evaluation and did not 
provide any therapy. (Tr. 18) 
Policies  
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion of the Executive 
Branch in regulating access to information pertaining to national security emphasizing, 
“no one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 
518, 528 (1988). As Commander . in Chief, the President has the authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual 
is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The President 
has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant an applicant eligibility 
for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly consistent with 
the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information 
within Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
5 
 
 
   
    
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation 
about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Clearance 
decisions must be “in terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a 
determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 § 7. 
Thus, nothing in this decision should be construed to suggest that it is based, in whole or 
in part, on any express or implied determination about applicant’s allegiance, loyalty, or 
patriotism. It is merely an indication the applicant has not met the strict guidelines the 
President, Secretary of Defense, and Director of National Intelligence have established 
for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 95 -0611 at 2 
(App. Bd. May 2, 1996). 
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial  
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶  E3.1.15. An applicant “has  the ultimate burden of  demonstrating that it  
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant  or continue his [or  her] security  
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01- 20700 at  3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). The burden of  
disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the Government.  See  ISCR Case No. 02-
31154 at  5 (App. Bd.  Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  Egan, 484 U.S. at 531;  see  AG  ¶ 2(b).   
Analysis  
Personal Conduct  
AG ¶ 15 explains why personal conduct is a security concern stating: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or  
unwillingness  to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions  
about  an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness  and ability to  protect  
6 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
classified information. Of special interest is any failure to provide truthful 
and candid answers during the security clearance process or any other 
failure to cooperate with the security clearance process. . . . 
AG ¶ 16 lists personal conduct disqualifying conditions that are potentially relevant 
in this case as follows: 
(a) deliberate omission, concealment,  or f
 alsification of  relevant facts from  
any personnel  security questionnaire, personal  history  statement,  or similar  
form  used to conduct  investigations, determine employment qualifications,  
award benefits or  status, determine  national security eligibility or  
trustworthiness, or  award fiduciary responsibilities;  
(b) deliberately providing false or  mi sleading information; or concealing or  
omitting  information, concerning relevant  facts to an employer, investigator,  
security official,  competent  medical or mental health professional involved  
in making a recommendation r  elevant  to a national security eligibility  
determination,  or other official government  representative;  
(d) credible adverse information that is not explicitly covered under any  
other  gui
deline and may not be sufficient by itself for an adverse  
determination,  but which, when combined with all available information,  
supports a whole- person assessment  of questionable judgment,  
untrustworthiness,  unreliability, lack of candor, unwillingness to comply with 
rules and regulations,  or other characteristics indicating that the individual  
may  not properly safeguard classified or sensitive information. This  
includes, but is not limited to, consideration of:  
     (1)  untrustworthy  or unr eliable behavior to include breach of client  
confidentiality, release of proprietary information,  unauthorized release of  
sensitive corporate or  government protected information;  
     (2) any disruptive, violent,  or other inappropriate behavior;  
     (3) a pattern of  dishonesty or rule violations; and  
     (4) evidence of significant misuse of Government or other  employer's  
time or resources; and  
(e) personal conduct,  or c oncealment  of information about one's conduct,  
that creates  a vulnerability to exploitation,  manipulation,  or duress by a  
foreign intelligence entity  or other individual  or group. Such  conduct  
includes: (1) engaging in activities  which, if known, could affect  the person's  
personal, professional, or community standing.   
7 
 
 
    
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
  
   
  
 
   
   
 
 
    
 
The record evidence establishes AG ¶ ¶ 16(a), 16(b), 16(d), and 16(e) . Further 
details will be discussed in the mitigation analysis, infra. AG ¶ 17 lists conditions that 
could mitigate personal conduct security concerns: 
(a) the individual  m
 ade prompt,  good-faith efforts to correct the omission,  
concealment,  or falsification before being confronted with the facts;  
(b) the refusal or failure to cooperate, omission, or concealment was caused  
or  s
ignificantly contributed to by  advice of legal counsel  or of  a person with  
professional  responsibilities for advising or instructing the individual  
specifically concerning security  processes. Upon being made aware of the  
requirement to cooperate or  provide the  information, the individual  
cooperated fully  and truthfully;   
(c) the offense is so minor, or so much time has passed, or the behavior is  
s
o infrequent,  or it happened under such unique circumstances that it is  
unlikely to recur  and  does not  cast  doubt on the i ndividual’s reliability,  
trustworthiness, or  good judgment;  
(d) the individual has acknowledged the behavior and obtained counseling  
t
o change the be havior or taken other positive steps to alleviate the  
stressors, circumstances, or factors  that  contributed to untrustworthy,  
unreliable, or  other inappropriate behavior, and such  behavior is  unlikely to  
recur;  
(e) the individual has  t aken positive steps to reduce or eliminate vulnerability  
to  exploitation,  manipulation, or duress;  and  
(f) the information was unsubstantiated or from a source of questionable  
r
eliability.   
In I
SCR Case No. 10- 04641 at 4 (App. Bd. Sept. 24, 2013), the DOHA Appeal 
Board explained Applicant’s responsibility for proving the applicability of mitigating 
conditions as follows: 
Once a concern arises regarding an Applicant’s security clearance 
eligibility, there is a strong presumption against the grant or maintenance of 
a security clearance. See Dorfmont v. Brown, 913 F. 2d 1399, 1401 (9th 
Cir. 1990), cert. denied, 499 U.S. 905 (1991). After the Government 
presents evidence raising security concerns, the burden shifts to the 
applicant to rebut or mitigate those concerns. See Directive ¶ E3.1.15. The 
standard applicable in security clearance decisions is that articulated in 
Egan, supra. “Any doubt concerning personnel being considered for access 
to classified information will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Directive, Enclosure 2, [App. A] ¶ 2(b). 
8 
 
 
     
  
     
 
 
    
      
  
 
  
      
     
    
 
    
 
   
 
  
    
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
   
  
 
      
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
  
  
      
SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.e are mitigated. SOR ¶ 1.b alleges and the record established 
in August 2016, Applicant was terminated from his employment with company O for falling 
asleep at a client site. There are no allegations that he subsequently fell asleep during 
the workday. 
SOR ¶ 1.e alleges and the record establishes that Applicant made a false or 
misleading statement during his April 4, 2019 OPM interview when he stated he did not 
have to attend anger management classes. At his hearing, he admitted he attended three 
anger management classes. 
The incidents in SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.e are not recent, and they do not cast doubt on 
his current reliability, trustworthiness, and judgment. AG ¶ 17(c) applies to and mitigates 
these two SOR incidents. 
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges and the record established that on May 17, 2016, Applicant 
behaved inappropriately in the workplace after a phone call. He cursed and shadowed 
boxed scaring co-workers in the general area. On February 21, 2022, Applicant became 
upset with a coworker, slammed his fist on a table and yelled at the coworker. Some of 
Applicant’s comments in 2022 minimized the coworker’s concerns about safety. The 
coworker felt threatened. Applicant’s employer viewed the incident in 2022 as sufficiently 
serious to warrant terminating his employment. The February 21, 2022 incident is 
relatively recent. 
Personal Conduct—Falsification  of A pplicant’s  SCA  
“Applicant’s statements about his intent and state of mind when he executed his 
[SCA] were relevant evidence, but they [are] not binding on the Administrative Judge.” 
ISCR Case No. 04-09488 at 2 (App. Bd. Nov. 29, 2006) (citation omitted). In ADP Case 
No. 17-03932 at 3 (App. Bd. Feb. 14, 2019), the Appeal Board recognized the importance 
of circumstantial evidence of intent in falsification cases: 
When evaluating the deliberate nature of an alleged falsification, a Judge 
should consider the applicant’s mens rea in light of the entirety of the record 
evidence. See, e.g., ADP Case No. 15-07979 at 5 (App. Bd. May 30, 2017). 
As a practical matter, a finding regarding an applicant’s intent or state of 
mind may not always be based on an applicant’s statements, but rather may 
rely on circumstantial evidence. Id. 
When Applicant  completed his  February 2, 2024 SCA  he provided false or 
misleading answers  to questions about  the end of his  employments with companies  O 
and T/B. He was fired on both occasions. His  statements  that  he left by mutual  agreement  
and the expressed rationales for his leaving the employments  were  false.  SOR ¶¶ 1.c and  
1.d  are established.  
Applicant’s explanations at his hearing for not disclosing accurate information on 
his SCAs are not credible. He is intelligent, well educated, and experienced in the ways 
of the world. The questions are clear and easy to understand. He knew what termination 
9 
 
 
  
  
       
     
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
       
 
     
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
     
    
 
 
  
 
 
      
 
  
or fired means, and he understands that he was terminated from his employment s with 
companies O and T/B. He knew he should have disclosed the required information about 
his terminations from the two employment s on his 2024 SCA. No mitigating conditions 
apply to the falsifications o f Applicant’s February 2, 2024 SCA . His falsification casts 
doubt on his reliability, trustworthiness, and judgment. Personal conduct security 
concerns are not mitigated. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
Applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the Applicant’s 
conduct and all the circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.   
Under AG ¶ 2(c), “[t]he ultimate determination” of whether to grant a security 
clearance “must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines” and the whole- person concept. My comments under Guideline E are 
incorporated in my whole- person analysis. Some of the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) were 
addressed under that guideline but some warrant additional comment. 
Applicant is a 64-year-old senior program manager who has worked for a defense 
contractor for 20 months. In 1982, he received a bachelor’s degree in computer science, 
and in 1997, he received a master’s degree in information management. There is no 
evidence of security violations, abuse of illegal drugs, and criminal conduct. 
The reasons for revocation of his security clearance are more persuasive. 
Falsification of his February 2, 2024 SCA strikes at the heart of the security clearance 
process. The personal conduct analysis, supra, explains why the Guideline E security 
concerns are not mitigated. 
It is well settled that once a concern arises regarding an applicant’s security 
clearance eligibility, there is a strong presumption against granting a security clearance. 
See Dorfmont, 913 F. 2d at 1401. I have carefully applied the law, as set forth in Egan , 
Exec. Or. 10865, the Directive, the AGs, and the Appeal Board’s jurisprudence to the 
facts and circumstances in the context of the whole person. 
10 
 
 
 
   
   
  
   
  
    
   
  
   
 
 
    
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
_________________________ 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  Guideline E:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph 1.a:   Agai
nst Applicant 
Subparagraph 1.b:   For Applicant 
Subparagraphs  1.c  and 1.d:   Against Applicant 
Subparagraph 1.e:   For Applicant 
Conclusion  
Considering all of the circumstances in this case, it is not clearly consistent with 
the interests of national security to grant Applicant eligibility for a security clearance. 
Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Mark Harvey 
Administrative Judge 
11 