                                                              
  
                      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
     DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS      
           
             
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
     
    
 
 
     
        
  
      
     
 
 
 
      
 
  
  
    
    
   
  
 
______________ 
______________ 
In  the matter  of:  )  
 )  
   )   ISCR  Case No.  24-00815  
 )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance  )  
A
ppearances  
For Government: Patricia M. Lynch-Epps, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
06/11/2025 
Decision  
BLAZEWICK, R. B., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not mitigate the security concerns under Guideline F (Financial 
Considerations). Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
On July 8 , 2024 , the Department of Defense (DOD ) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline F. The action 
was taken under Executive Order 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial 
Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended 
(Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) implemented by the DOD on June 8, 
2017. 
Applicant responded to the SOR on October 17, 2024, and requested a decision 
on the written record in lieu of a hearing. The Government’s written case was submitted 
on December 18, 2024. A complete copy of the file of relevant material (FORM) was 
provided to Applicant, who was afforded an opportunity to file objections and submit 
material to refute, extenuate, or mitigate the security concerns. Applicant received the 
FORM on January 7, 2025, and he did not respond. The case was assigned to me on 
April 2, 2025. The Government exhibits included in the FORM are admitted in evidence 
without objection. 
 
 
 
     
     
      
   
      
      
        
      
 
         
 
     
       
   
 
   
    
     
  
   
   
    
    
   
 
 
        
 
 
 
 
  
 
     
   
  
  
     
   
  
 
    
   
  
Findings of Fact  
The SOR alleges Applicant is indebted to the f ederal government for delinquent 
taxes in the approximate amount of $2 7,665 for tax year 2013 (SOR ¶ 1.a) and in the 
approximate amount of $2,974 for tax year 2022 (SOR ¶ 1.b) . It also alleges that he 
failed to file federal income tax returns for tax years 2020, 2021, and 2023 (SOR ¶ 1.c), 
and that he has four delinquent debts totaling approximately $7,652 (SOR ¶¶ 1.d- 1.g). 
He denied the 2013 tax debt, failing to file his tax returns, and one of the delinquent 
debts. He admitted the remaining allegations. All the allegations are supported by 
Applicant’s response to the SOR, his interrogatory response, and his 2022, 2023, and 
2024 credit bureau reports (CBR). (Items 4-7) 
Applicant is 59 years old. He has been employed by his current employer since 
2022. He graduated high school in 1983. He served in the U.S. Air Force from 1986 to 
1987 and received an honorable discharge. He has been married since 1994 and was 
previously married from 1991 to 1993. He has two adult children and two adult 
stepchildren. (Item 3) 
In his 2022 security clearance application, Applicant indicated that he owed 
federal taxes but did not provide any details . In his 2023 interview with a government 
investigator, he explained that in 2013 he was self -employed, and that year the 
economy experienced a downturn that caused him to lose out on work . When he filed 
his tax return for that year, he did not have the money to pay the taxes owed. He 
estimated that he owed approximately $28,986 and stated that he had made sporadic 
payments over the years , but that he did not have a payment plan in place. He also 
stated that he had filed federal tax returns for every year as required, and that he did not 
owe taxes for any other tax year. He was not asked about any other delinquent debts. 
(Items 3-4) 
A t ax account transcript was not provided for tax year 2013, but Applicant 
reported a balance of $27,665 in his response to interrogatories. (SOR ¶ 1.a) In his 
response to the SOR, he denied the allegation, stating that the ten- year collection 
period had expired and that it was uncollectable according to the IRS website. He did 
not provide proof of its uncollectable status, nor did he provide proof that he has paid 
this debt. This allegation is unresolved. (Items 2, 4) 
A tax year 2022 tax account transcript dated June 17, 2024, shows an account 
balance plus accruals of $3,068. It also shows one payment of $100 was made on April 
21, 2024. Applicant reported a balance of $2,974 on his response to interrogatories. 
(SOR ¶ 1.b) In his response to the SOR, he admitted the allegation and stated that a 
payment plan was established, and the first payment was made, but he did not provide 
any proof of a payment plan, or of payments made toward the debt . This allegation is 
unresolved. (Items 2, 4) 
Tax account transcripts for tax years 2020 and 2021, dated June 17, 2024, both 
state, “no tax return filed.” (SOR ¶ 1.c) In his response to the SOR, dated June 18, 
2024, Applicant stated both years were filed, and that he had not filed his tax return for 
2 
 
 
  
     
  
  
 
  
   
    
   
    
  
    
 
  
   
     
  
    
  
 
   
 
   
  
   
  
 
  
   
  
  
   
 
 
     
  
  
     
    
  
      
 
 
   
   
    
tax year 2023. In his response to the SOR, he denied the allegation, listing 2020 as 
“unemployed,” 2021 as filed with a refund due, and 2023 as filed on October 15, 2024. 
He did not provide any supporting documentation for his statements. This allegation is 
unresolved. (Items 2, 4) 
The first alleged consumer debt is an account with Synchrony Bank/PayPal 
Credit that has been charged off in the approximate amount of $3,347. (SOR ¶ 1.d) This 
is reflected on the December 2023 CBR and was listed on the December 2022 CBR as 
60 days past due. It is not listed on the June 2024 CBR. In his response to the SOR, 
Applicant denied the account, stating it was an unknown account. He did not provide 
any evidence that the account is not his, nor any evidence of efforts to dispute the 
legitimacy of the debt. This debt is unresolved. (Items 2, 5-7) 
The second alleged consumer debt is an account with Wells Fargo for a home 
furnishings revolving charge account that has been charged off in the approximate 
amount of $3,000. (SOR ¶ 1.e) This account is listed on all three CBRs. In his response 
to the SOR, Applicant admitted the allegation, stating he has an online payment plan. 
He did not provide any evidence of the payment plan , or that he has made any 
payments toward this debt. This debt is unresolved. (Items 2, 5-7) 
The third alleged consumer debt is an account originally with Citibank but 
currently owned by Calvary Portfolio Services, in collection for approximately $883. 
(SOR ¶ 1.f) This account is listed on all three CBRs. In his response to the SOR, 
Applicant admitted the allegation, stating he had a payment plan through a bank draft. 
He did not provide any evidence of the payment plan , or that he has made any 
payments toward this debt. This debt is unresolved. (Items 2, 5-7) 
The fourth alleged consumer debt is an account with Kohls /Capital One that has 
been charged off in the approximate amount of $422. (SOR ¶ 1.g) This account is listed 
on all three CBRs. In his response to the SOR, Applicant admitted the allegation and 
stated that he is contacting the creditor to pay the total amount. He did not provide any 
evidence of payments made toward this debt. This debt is unresolved. (Items 2, 5-7) 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
3 
 
 
   
     
   
 
     
  
  
   
   
   
 
 
   
  
       
     
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and 
commonsense decision. An administrative judge must consider all available and reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 
10865 § 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the 
applicant has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense 
have established for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the  G overnment must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in
the per sonal  or professional history of  the applicant  that  may disqualify the applicant  
from  being eligible f or access  to classified information. The Government  has the burden  
of establishing controverted facts  alleged in the SOR.  See Egan , 484 U.S.  at 531.  
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.”  See v. 
Washington Metro.  Area Transit Auth., 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The g uidelines  
presume a nexus or  rational connection between proven conduct under any of the  
criteria listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability.  See ISCR Case No.  15 -
01253  at  3 (App. Bd.  Apr. 20, 2016).    
Once the  G overnment establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial  
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive  ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of  proving a mitigating condition,  
and the burden of disproving it  never shifts to the  Government.  See  ISCR Case No.  02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep.  22,  2005).   
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent 
with the national interest to grant or continue his security clearance.” ISCR Case No. 
01-20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, 
if they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531. 
Analysis  
Guideline F, Financial Considerations  
4 
 
 
         
 
  
   
 
  
   
   
   
  
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
The concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one ’s means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual ’s reliability, trustworthiness , and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
Applicant’s admissions and the evidence in the FORM establish the following 
disqualifying conditions under this guideline: 
AG  ¶ 19(a):  inability to  s
 atisfy debts;   
AG  ¶  19(c):  a history of not  meeting financial obligations; and  
AG ¶ 19(f): failure to file or fraudulently filing annual Federal, state,  or  local  
income tax returns or failure to pay  annual Federal, state,  or local income  
tax as required.  
The 
following mitigating conditions are potentially applicable: 
AG ¶ 20 (a):  the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or  
oc
curred under such circumstances that it is  unlikely to recur and does not  
cast doubt  on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  
judgment;   
AG ¶ 20 (b ):  the conditions that resulted in the financial  pr oblem were  
largely beyond the person’s control (e.g., loss of employment, a business  
downturn, unexpected medical  emergency,  a death, divorce or  separation,  
clear victimization by predatory lending practices,  or identity theft), and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;   
AG ¶ 20(d ) :  t he individual initiated and is adhering to a good- faith effort to  
repay overdue creditors or otherwise resolve  debts;  
AG ¶ 20(e ) : the individual has a reasonable basis to dispute the legitimacy  
of  t
he past -due debt  which is the cause of the problem and provides  
documented proof to  substantiate the basis of the dispute or provides  
evidence of actions to resolve the issue; and  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
     
  
  
  
  
    
    
    
   
   
     
  
  
   
   
  
    
  
 
      
 
   
   
 
   
 
   
      
    
AG ¶ 20(g):  t
he individual has  made arrangements with the appropriate  
tax authority to file or pay the amount owed and is in compliance with  
those arrangements.  
Applicant’s accumulation of delinquent tax debt  and failure to file his returns  has  
been an ongoing and recurring course of conduct  from 2013 to at least  2023  that casts  
doubt on his  current reliability, trustworthiness,  and  good judgment.  An applicant who  
fails repeatedly to fulfill their legal obligations, such as filing tax returns and paying taxes  
when due,  does not  demonstrate the high degree of good judgment  and reliability  
required of those granted access to classified information.  See ISCR Case No. 15 -
06707 at  3 (App. Bd. Aug. 15, 2017).  It appears  Applicant  never paid the 2013 tax debt, 
and he has  not provided any proof  that  he is paying the 2022 debt,  nor  proof that he  
filed all his tax returns  as required.  The Appeal Board has held that  “it is reasonable for  
a Judge to expect  applicants  to present documentation about the satisfaction of specific  
debts.”  See  ISCR Case No. 09 -07091 at 2 (App. Bd.  Aug.  11, 2010) (quoting ISCR  
Case No. 04-10671 at  3 (App. Bd. May  1, 2006)).   
W
hile the 2013 debt may have been incurred due to circumstances beyond his 
control, specifically a business downturn, he did not act responsibly toward that debt. 
The status of the debt as uncollectable due to the passage of time is not mitigating. As 
the Appeal Board summarized in ISCR Case No. 17-01473 (App. Bd. Aug. 10, 2018): 
“The security significance of long delinquent debts is not diminished 
merely because the debts have become legally unenforceable owing to 
the passage of time. Security clearance decisions are not controlled or 
limited by any statute of limitation, and reliance on the non -collectability of 
a debt does not constitute a good-faith effort to resolve that debt within the 
meaning of the Directive. A security clearance adjudication is not a 
proceeding aimed at collecting an applicant’s personal debts. Rather a 
security clearance adjudication is a proceeding aimed at evaluating an 
applicant’s judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness to make a decision 
about the applicant’s security eligibility. Accordingly, even if a delinquent 
debt is legally unenforceable . . . , the federal government is entitled to 
consider the facts and circumstances surrounding an applicant’s conduct 
in incurring and failing to satisfy the debt in a timely manner. ” (Quoting 
ISCR Case No. 10-03656 at 3 (App. Bd. Jan. 19, 2011)) 
None of the mitigating conditions fully apply to the tax debt and failure-to-file allegations. 
Likewise, Applicant’s consumer debt is an ongoing concern that casts doubt on 
his current reliability, trustworthiness, and good judgment. He did not provide proof that 
he disputed or otherwise resolved the Synchrony/PayPal account that he denied. He 
made assertions about paying two of the debts, but as with his tax -related assertions, 
he did not provide documentation, so there is no way to confirm whether he is in 
compliance with payment plans and is making timely payments . He stated he planned 
to pay the fourth debt, but i ntentions to resolve debts in the future are not a substitute 
for a track record of debt repayment or other responsible approaches. See ISCR Case 
6 
 
 
      
  
 
 
   
   
   
   
    
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
    
    
   
      
 
 
 
  
  
 
    
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
No. 11-14570 at 3 (App. Bd. Oct. 23, 2013). None of the mitigating conditions apply to 
the consumer debt accounts. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. In applying the whole-
person concept, an administrative judge must evaluate an applicant ’s eligibility for a 
security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct and all relevant 
circumstances. An a dministrative judge should consider the nine adjudicative pr ocess 
factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5)  the  extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of
rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation  
for the conduct; (8) the potential for  pressure, coercion, exploitation,  or
duress;  and (9) the likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.   
I have incorporated my comments under Guideline F in my whole- person 
analysis and applied the adjudicative factors in AG ¶ 2(d). Because Applicant requested 
a determination on the record without a hearing, I had no opportunity to evaluate his 
credibility and sincerity based on demeanor. See ISCR Case No. 01-12350 at 3-4 (App. 
Bd. Jul. 23, 2003). After weighing the disqualifying and mitigating conditions under 
Guideline F and evaluating all the evidence in the context of the whole person, I 
conclude Applicant has not mitigated the security concerns raised under Guideline F, 
financial considerations. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 1.a-g:  Against Applicant 
Conclusion  
7 
 
 
         
     
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
________________________ 
I conclude it is not clearly consistent with the national security interests of the 
United States to grant Applicant eligibility for access to classified information. Clearance 
is denied. 
Robert B. Blazewick 
Chief Administrative Judge 
8 