 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                              
                             
          
           
             
 
 
    
  
       
   
   
 
 
 
     
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
  
 
 
    
       
     
   
    
      
   
 
      
    
   
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-01255 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Lauren A. Shure, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
06/20/2025 
Decision  
GARCIA, Candace Le’i, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not mitigate the financial considerations security concerns. 
Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the  Case  
On September 27, 2024, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement 
of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline F (financial 
considerations). The action was taken under Executive Order (E xec. O r.) 10865, 
Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; 
DOD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines 
(AG) implemented by DOD on June 8, 2017. 
Applicant submitted a response to the SOR (Answer) on November 1, 2024, and 
elected to have h er case decided on the written record in lieu of a hearing . The 
Government’s written case was submitted on November 21, 202 4. A complete copy of 
1 
 
 
 
 
    
      
    
 
    
 
 
 
     
         
     
     
 
    
       
   
   
   
      
     
      
     
 
         
       
  
     
      
   
 
       
   
  
  
     
   
 
        
  
   
   
 
    
  
the file of relevant material (FORM) was provided to Applicant on November 21, 2024, 
and she was afforded an opportunity to file objections and submit material to refute, 
extenuate, or mitigate the security concerns. Applicant received t he FORM and she 
responded on January 27, 2025. The case was assigned to me on April 2, 2025 . The 
Government’s documents, identified as Items 1 through 8 in its FORM, are admitted in 
evidence without objection. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant admitted all the SOR allegations in her Answer except for SOR ¶¶ 1.h 
and 1.j, which she denied. (Items 1-2) She is 38 years old. She married in June 2016 
and divorced in October 2021. She has one child, a minor. She previously owned a 
home from April 2019 to November 2020, and she has since rented. (Items 3-4, 8) 
Applicant graduated from high school in 2004 and subsequently attended college 
until 2006 but did not earn a degree. She served in the U.S. military from January 2007 
to October 2007 and received a general under honorable conditions discharge. She was 
granted a security clearance by another government agency in July 2011. She worked 
as a correctional officer from September 2012 until she resigned in October 2021. She 
was unemployed until July 2022. She then worked as a retail sales consultant until her 
employer fired her in April 2023 because she was unable to meet her new work 
schedule requirements due to a lack of childcare. Since May 2023, she has worked as a 
security officer for her employer, a DOD contractor. (Answer; Items 3, 8) 
The SOR alleges Applicant had twelve delinquent consumer debts totaling 
$30,095. The allegations are established by Applicant’s admissions in her Answer, her 
May 2023 security clearance application ( SCA), her background interview with an 
authorized DOD investigator in November 2023 (PSI), her April 2024 response to 
interrogatories, and credit bureau reports (CBRs) from June 2023, January 2024 , and 
November 2024. (Items 2-8) 
SOR ¶ 1.a is a charged off account for $7,719. Applicant voluntarily surrendered 
this car after her divorce in 2021 because she could no longer afford to make the 
monthly payments. She stated in her Answer she contacted the creditor who agreed to 
settle the debt. She intends to consolidate this debt with her other debts with the same 
creditor (SOR ¶¶ 1.c and 1.i) after she resolves some of her smaller debts and has the 
financial means to do so. (Answer; Items 5-8) 
SOR ¶ 1.b is for a credit card placed for collection for $3,795. Applicant used this 
credit card after her divorce when she was unemployed to pay for daily living expenses 
for her and her child. She stated in her Answer she began setting aside $50 monthly in 
her banking account so that she can resolve this debt. (Answer; Items 6-7) 
SOR ¶ 1.c is a credit union account placed for collection for $2,803. Applicant 
obtained this loan in 2020 to purchase a vacation for her and her then- spouse. Her 
2 
 
 
 
 
       
    
 
       
     
 
   
  
 
      
   
   
   
   
 
     
     
 
  
   
        
    
 
        
  
 
 
   
   
 
      
  
   
  
 
   
 
        
     
   
  
    
      
  
 
monthly payments were $120. She intends to consolidate this debt with SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 
1.i, as discussed above. (Answer; Items 5-8) 
SOR ¶ 1.d is an account placed for collection for $1,323. Applicant incurred this 
debt for a spiritual retreat after her divorce. She stated in her Answer she was enrolled 
in a monthly payment plan of $135. Documentation reflects payments in accordance 
with the plan were scheduled to occur from November 2024 to August 2025, but she did 
not provide documentation to show she made any such payments. (Answer; Items 5-8) 
SOR ¶ 1.e is an account placed for collection for $1,131. Applicant obtained this 
online retail credit card in Apr il 2020 to furnish her child’s room after her divorce . She 
provided documentation with her Answer reflecting this debt had a zero balance as of 
October 2024. It is not reported on her most recent CBR from November 2024. This 
debt has been resolved. (Answer; Items 5-6, 8) 
SOR ¶ 1.f is a cable, internet, and mobile service account placed for collection for 
$863. Applicant incurred this debt after her divorce. She was approved for an 
affordability program for low -income households but fell behind on paying her monthly 
bill. She stated in her Answer she contacted the creditor and validated the debt, and she 
began setting aside $50 monthly in her banking account so that she can resolve this 
debt. Although this debt is only reported on her January 2024 CBR, she did not provide 
documentation reflecting she has resolved it. (Answer; Item 6) 
SOR ¶ 1.g is for a credit -card account charged off for $858. Applicant used this 
credit card when she was unemployed for daily living expenses for her and her child. 
She stated in her Answer she was repaying the debt through a monthly payment plan of 
$80. Documentation reflects she was scheduled to make 11 monthly payments of $80 
beginning in November 2024 to resolve this debt, but she did not provide documentation 
to show she made any such payments. (Answer; Items 5-8) 
SOR ¶ 1.h is an account placed for collection for $299. Applicant indicated in her 
PSI she was unaware of this debt but would contact the creditor to validate it and 
resolve the balance. She stated in her Answer she has not had an account with this 
creditor in over ten years, and she could not locate this debt after an extensive search 
of her CBRs. It is reported on all three of her CBRs and she did not provide 
documentation reflecting she disputed this debt. (Answer; Items 5-8) 
SOR ¶ 1.i is a credit union account placed for collection for $7,484. Applicant 
indicated in her PSI she obtained this loan in 2020 to purchase a car , and her monthly 
payments were $402. S he indicated she had recently sold t he car t o purchase a new 
one and she no longer had a balance on the loan. She did not provide documentation to 
corroborate her claim that this account has a zero balance. As discussed above, she 
stated in her Answer she intends to consolidate this debt with SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.c. 
(Answer; Items 6-8) 
3 
 
 
 
  
    
  
    
        
 
      
   
  
      
    
    
   
    
 
      
 
 
 
  
   
      
 
         
  
    
     
    
  
  
     
     
 
     
   
    
    
    
     
       
  
       
  
      
 
  
  
SOR ¶ 1.
j is for an account placed for collection for $2,213. Applicant indicated in 
her PSI this debt was for unpaid rent and late fees from a previous residence in 
November 2021. She provided documentation reflecting she disputed this debt in 
September 2024. It is only reported on her June 2023 CBR. (Answer; Items 5, 8) 
SOR ¶ 1.k is for a cellular phone in collection for $813. Applicant obtained this 
phone in 2004 and her monthly payment was $100. She cancelled the service when she 
changed to a different phone carrier and returned the phone via mail, but the carrier did 
not receive it. She stated in her Answer she disputed the debt; the creditor settled it for 
$448 in October 2024; she made a $100 payment ; and she intended to pay the 
remaining balance of $348 in November 2024. Documentation reflects she made a 
$100 payment in October 2024 and her remaining balance was $713. She provided no 
further documentation reflecting she resolved this debt. (Answer; Items 5, 7-8) 
SOR ¶ 1.l is for an account placed for collection for $794. Applicant contacted the 
creditor and verified that she accrued the debt when she purchased bedroom furniture 
from an online home store. She believed she paid the debt in full during the time of 
purchase, but she was not able to provide the creditor with a receipt to corroborate her 
claim. She entered a monthly payment plan of $40 at a date not in the record, but she 
did not provide documentation to show that she made payments in accordance with the 
plan. It is only reported on her June 2023 CBR. (Answer; Items 4-5, 8) 
Applicant attributes h er delinquent debt s primarily to her divorce and the 
consequent loss of her then- spouse’s income, her period of unemployment and 
underemployment following her resignation from a job she held for nine years and trying 
to raise her young child. (Items 3-4) She stated in her response to interrogatories that 
she is “actively working to pay all my debt through the snowball method. Once done 
managing the current payment plans (over $600 month) I will move on to other 
accounts.” She characterized her overall financial situation as rebuilding and stated she 
has established a savings account to help ensure she does not have any future financial 
issues. (Answer; Items 4, 8) 
Applicant disclosed on her SCA and discussed during her PSI that her wages 
were being garnished biweekly since late 2022 to satisfy a $9,800 personal loan she 
obtained to start a business that failed after she resigned as a correctional officer in 
2021, and to pay for daily living expenses after her divorce. This debt is reported on her 
three CBRs as charged off for approximately $8,100. A paystub and garnishment letter 
from March 2024 reflects she has an approximate net pay of $800 a fter this creditor 
garnishes her wages in the amount of approximately $120 to $160. As of September 
2024, the balance of her garnishment was $511. Once this debt is resolved, she intends 
to use the money that was being garnished to repay her remaining debts. (Items 3-5) 
The three CBRs also reflect Applicant has two additional consumer debts not 
alleged in the SOR: one in collection for $1,427 and the other in collection for $1,105. 
She indicated during her background interview that the former debt was a credit card 
she used for daily living expenses , and she was unaware of the latter debt. 
 4 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
   
   
     
 
 
       
     
   
     
   
 
 
    
   
   
    
   
 
  
 
     
    
    
      
    
 
 
     
     
    
  
        
   
      
   
     
   
 
   
  
    
Docum
entation reflects she entered a payment agreement for both debts in March 
2024, consisting of monthly payments of $150 and $118, respectively, beginning April 
2024 and continuing until both debts are paid. She did not provide documentation 
reflecting she made any payments in accordance with the payment plans. The most 
recent CBR from November 2024 reflects both debts are past due, and she disputed 
them. (Items 4 -8) These three debts were not alleged in the SOR and cannot be used 
for disqualification purposes but may be used while assessing the applicability of 
mitigating conditions and in the whole-person analysis. 
Applicant’s April 2024 monthly budget reflects a net monthly income of $2,800, 
monthly expenses totaling $2,780, and payments to three debts totaling $1,180, 
revealing a negative net remainder. (Item 4) There is no evidence in the record that she 
has received financial counseling. She traveled to Mexico and Costa Rica for pleasure 
in 2017 and 2021, respectively. (Item 3) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider t he adjudicative guidelines . In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, t he adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing t he 
complexities of human behavior, t hese guidelines are applied in conjunction with t he 
factors listed in t he adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial , and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 
2(a), the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as 
the “whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, 
reliable information about t he person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in 
making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for access to 
classified information will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this 
decision, I have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical , and based 
on t he evidence contained in t he record. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government 
must present evidence to establish controverted facts alleged in t he SOR. Under 
Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is responsible for presenting witnesses and ot her 
evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven 
by Department Counsel , and has t he ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a 
favorable security decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with t he Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. T he 
 5 
 
 
 
 
   
   
     
    
      
 
 
   
   
    
   
 
 
 
    
 
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
 
   
   
 
  
  
 
     
   
  
 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk that an applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation as to potential, rat her than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Section 7 of Exec . Or. 10865 provides that decisions shall be “in terms of t he 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to t he loyalty of t he 
applicant concerned.” See also Exec. O r. 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple 
prerequisites for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline F: Financial Considerations   
AG ¶ 18 expresses the security concern pertaining to financial considerations: 
Failure to live within one ’s means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual ’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
Affluence that cannot be explained by known sources of income is also a 
security concern insofar as it may result from criminal activity, including 
espionage. 
AG ¶ 19 describes conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying. I considered as relevant AG ¶ 19(a), an “inability to satisfy debts,” and AG 
¶ 19 (c), “a history of not meeting financial obligations .” Applicant has a history of not 
paying her debts. AG ¶¶ 19(a) and 19(c) apply. 
Of the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20, I have determined the following to be 
relevant: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or  
 occurred  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast  
doubt  on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good  
judgment;   
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
     
     
   
    
      
  
  
    
      
     
     
 
 
    
      
     
   
 
 
       
   
    
  
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial problem were l argely  
beyond the person’s  control  (e.g.,  loss of employment, a business  
downturn, unexpected medical  emergency,  a death, divorce or  separation,  
clear victimization by predatory lending practices,  or identity theft), and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;   
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- faith effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts; and  
(e) the individual has  a r easonable basis to  dispute the legitimacy  of the 
past-due debt  which i s  the c ause of the problem  and provides  
documented proof to  substantiate the basis of the dispute or provides  
evidence of actions to resolve the issue.  
Ci
rcumstances beyond Applicant’s control contributed to h er delinquent debts . 
Documentation reflects she has resolved the debt in SOR ¶ 1.e and I resolve that debt 
in her favor. However, she has not provided documentation to corroborate h er claims of 
payment or resolution for her remaining debts. She did not provide documentation to 
corroborate her claim she disputed the debt in SOR ¶ 1.h or the outcome of her 
disputes for the debt in SOR ¶ 1.j. She has not provided sufficient evidence that she has 
acted responsibly under her circumstances. She did not provide sufficient evidence that 
she initiated or is adhering to a good- faith effort to repay or otherwise resolve h er 
overdue creditors. There are not clear indications that her financial problems are being 
resolved or are under control . I find that her remaining financial problems continue to 
cast doubt on her current reliability, trustworthiness, and judgment. AG ¶¶ 20(a), 20(b), 
20(d), and 20(e) are not established. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under t he whole-person concept, t he administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all t he circumstances. The administrative judge should consider t he nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) t he  nature, extent,  and seriousness of t he  conduct; (2) t he  
circumstances surrounding t he  conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) t he  frequency and recency of t he  conduct; (4)  the  
individual’s  age and maturity  at the  time  of the  conduct; (5)  the  extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) t he  presence or absence of  
rehabilitation and ot her permanent behavioral changes; (7) t he  motivation 
for t he  conduct; (8) t he  potential for  pressure, coercion, exploitation,  or  
duress;  and (9) the  likelihood of  continuation or  recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2( c), the ultimate determination of w hether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance m ust be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of t he guidelines and t he whole-person concept. I have incorporated my 
comments under Guideline F in my whole-person analysis. Overall, the record evidence 
7 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
   
   
 
    
 
  
  
  
 
 
      
        
                      
                             
 
 
     
 
 
_____________________________ 
leaves me with questions and doubts as to Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a 
security clearance. I conclude that Applicant did not mitigate the financial considerations 
security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on t he allegations set forth in t he SOR, 
as required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  G
 uideline  F:   AGAI
NST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a-1.d:   
Subparagraph 1.e:    
Subparagraphs 1.f-1.l:   
Against Applicant  
For Applicant  
Against Applicant  
C
onclusion  
In light of all of t he circumstances presented by t he record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant Applicant eligibility for a 
security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Candace Le’i Garcia 
Administrative Judge 
8 