 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                               
      
               
          
             
 
    
  
                                                                     
   
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
               
                                                             
 
 
  
 
   
     
       
 
 
   
     
     
  
    
 
    
     
   
    
  
 
    
   
__________ 
__________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-02101 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Mark Lawton, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
12/11/2025 
Decision 
WESLEY, ROGER C. Administrative Judge 
Based upon a review of the case file, pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, 
Applicant did not mitigate drug involvement and substance misuse concerns. Eligibility 
for access to classified information or to hold a sensitive position is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On March 6, 2025, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) 
Adjudications and Vetting Services (AVS) issued a statement of reasons (SOR) to 
Applicant detailing reasons why under the drug involvement and substance misuse 
guideline the DCSA AVS could not mak e the preliminary affirmative determination of 
eligibility for granting a security clearance, and recommended referral to an 
administrative judge to determine whether a security clearance should be granted, 
continued, denied, or revoked. The action was taken under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 
10865, Safeguarding Cl assified I nformation within Industry (February 20, 1960); 
Department of Defense ( DoD) Directive 5220.6 Defense Industrial Personnel Security 
Clearance Review Program , (January 2, 1992) ( Directive); and Security Executive 
Agent Directive 4, establishing in Appendix A the National Security Adjudicative 
Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Inform ation or Eligibility to 
Hold a Sensitive Position (AGs), effective June 8, 2017. 
 
 
   
  
  
   
     
    
 
  
 
 
       
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
 
 
     
   
  
    
 
       
   
      
  
 
  
 
   
   
 
Applicant responded to the SOR on March 22, 2025, and elected to have his 
case decided on the written record in lieu of a hearing. This case was assigned to me 
on September 15, 2025. Applicant received the File of Relevant Material (FORM) on 
June 5, 2025, and was instructed to file any objections to the FORM or supply additional 
information for consideration within 30 days of receipt. Applicant did not respond to the 
Government’s FORM and did not object to the Government’s materials included in the 
FORM. 
Summary  of Pleadings  
Under Guideline H,  Applicant allegedly  (a) used marijuana with varying frequency  
from about  December 2008 to about December 2024; (b) used marijuana from about  
June 2024 to about December 2024 while holding a sensitive position; (c) purchased  
marijuana with varying frequency from about  March 2009 to about  September  2024; (d)  
received a citation in  about 2015 for  possession of marijuana and drug paraphernalia;  
(e) received a citation in about  2012 or  2013 for marijuana; and (f) intends to continue  
using marijuana in t he future.   
In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted most of the allegations covered by 
Guideline H. He denied receiving a citation for possession of marijuana, and he denied 
any intention to continue using marijuana in the future. For clarification, he claimed that 
the alleged charge in 2015 was only for possession of drug paraphernalia, and not for 
possession of marijuana itself. He also claimed that in the interest of keeping his job 
and clearance, he no longer intends to u se marijuana in the future (despite its legality in 
his state of residence). And, he claimed he was more than willing to subject himself 
indefinitely to regular drug screenings. Applicant attached his letter of abstinence to his 
SOR response. (GE 1) 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 33-year-old civilian employee of a defense contractor who seeks a 
security clearance. Allegations covered in the SOR and admitted by Applicant are 
incorporated and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow. 
Background  
Applicant never married and has no children. ( GEs 2-3) He earned a high school 
diploma in June 2010 and attended college classes between September 201 2 and April 
2015 without earning a degree. (GE 2) Applicant did not report any military service . 
(GEs 2-3) 
Since March 2024, Applicant has been employed by his current employer ( GEs 
2-3) Previously, he worked for other employers in other jobs. He is sponsored by his 
current employer for a security clearance and has held an interim security clearance 
since April 2024. (GE 4) 
2 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
     
   
   
   
  
    
 
   
    
  
  
    
  
 
   
     
 
  
  
   
    
  
 
   
   
 
   
 
  
                                                                              
 
 
     
   
  
 
   
     
       
Illegal drug involvement   
While in high school and college (spanning December 2008 and November 
2023), Applicant used marijuana in varying frequency , generally once or twice a week 
on average before tapering off in 2022 and 2023. (GE 3). Sometimes he used marijuana 
nightly to help him fall aslee p. Mostly, though, he used marijuana with friends in social 
situations. ( GE 1 and 3) More specifically, he used marijuana with varying frequency 
between December 2008 and December 2024, while his marijuana purchases were 
made with varying frequency between Mach 2009 and September 2024. (GEs 2- 3)  For 
a six-month period spanning June 2024 to December 2024 Applicant used marijuana 
while holding a sensitive position and interim security clearance. (GEs 3 -4) His 
purchases of marijuana were contemporaneously made between June 2024 November 
2024 while holding a sensitive position and interim security clearance.. 
Applicant acknowledged his awareness that since at least March 2024 
(regardless of state law in his state legalizing the use of marijuana) that the possession 
(and implicitly use) of marijuana remained illegal under the Federal Controlled 
Substances Act . (21 U.S. ¶¶ 802, et seq . (1970)) (CSA). (GE 3) H is marijuana 
purchases were made through friends and acquaintances. 
While preparing for drug testing and job training with his current employer, in 
December 2023 Applicant abstained from marijuana activity for a short time with the 
knowledge that the use and possession of marijuana was illegal under federal law. (GEs 
1 and 3) Once he passed his employer -administered hair follicle test in March 2024, he 
resumed his marijuana use and purchases. (GE s 1 and 3) He estimated to have used 
and purchased marijuana on several occasions between March 2024 and December 
2024, with a last acknowledged purchase in September 2024 and a last acknowledged 
use in December 2024. (GE 3) 
In August 2015, Applicant was cited in a neighboring state for possession of 
marijuana and drug paraphernalia. (GEs 2- 3 and 5) He was later fined without the need 
for a court appearance. Earlier in 2012 or 2013, he was cited in the same neighboring 
state for possession of marijuana. (GE 6) He was later fined without the need for a court 
appearance. (GEs 2- 3 and 6) Applicant is credited with reporting both incidents to his 
employers at the time. (GE 3) 
Policies  
By virtue of the jurisprudential principles recognized by the U.S. Supreme Court 
in Department of the Navy v. Egan , 484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988), “no one has a ‘right’ to a 
security clearance.” As Commander in Chief, “the President has the authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information. ” Id. at 527. 
Eligibility for access to classified information may only be granted “upon a finding that it 
is clearly consistent with the national interest to do so. ” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
3 
 
 
 
  
  
  
    
 
   
 
  
  
  
  
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
     
 
 
   
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
            
  
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the a pplicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial , and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The AGs list guidelines to be considered by judges in the decision- making 
process covering DOHA cases. These guidelines take into account factors that could 
create a potential conflict of interest for the individual applicant, as well as 
considerations that could affect the individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified information. These guidelines include conditions that could raise a 
security concern and may be disqualifying (disqualifying conditions), if any, and all of 
the conditions that could mitigate security concerns. 
These guidelines must be considered before deciding whether or not a security 
clearance should be granted, continued, or denied. Although, the guidelines do not 
require judges to place exclusive reliance on the enumerated disqualifying and 
mitigating conditions in the guidelines in arriving at a decision. 
In addition to the relevant AGs, judges must take into account the pertinent 
considerations for assessing extenuation and mitigation set forth in ¶ 2(a) of the AGs, 
which are intended to assist the judges in reaching a fair and impartial, commonsense 
decision based on a careful consideration of the pertinent guidelines within the context 
of the whole person. The adjudicative process is designed to examine a sufficient period 
of an applicant’s life to enable predictive judgments to be made about whether the 
applicant is an acceptable security risk. 
When evaluating an applicant’s conduct, the relevant guidelines are considered 
together with the following AG ¶ 2(d) factors: (1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of 
the conduct; (2) the circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the individual’s age and 
maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to which participation is voluntary; (6) 
the presence or absence of rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) 
the motivation of the conduct; (8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or 
duress; and (9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Viewing the issues raised and evidence as a whole, the following individual 
guideline is pertinent: 
Drug Involvement  
The Concern: The illegal use of controlled substances, to include 
the misuse of prescription drugs, and the use of other substances that 
4 
 
 
  
   
 
    
  
    
   
    
   
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
  
   
       
      
 
     
   
     
        
   
    
   
  
         
 
 
    
       
  
cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because  such behavior 
may lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, 
rules, and regulations. Controlled substance means any “controlled 
substance” as defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic 
term adopted in this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed 
above. AG ¶  24. 
Burdens of Proof  
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation 
about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Clearance decisions must be “in terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be 
a determination as to the loyalty of the a pplicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 § 7. 
See also Exec. Or. 12968 (Aug. 2, 1995), § 3.1. 
Initially, the  G overnment must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in  
the per sonal  or professional history of  the a pplicant that may disqualify the  a pplicant  
from being eligible for  access  to classified information. The  Government has  the burden  
of establishing controverted facts  alleged in the SOR.  See  Egan, 484 U.S.  at 531.   
“Substantial evidence”  is  “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance. ”   See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit  Auth.,  36 F.3d 375, 380 (4
th  Cir. 1994). The AGs  
presume a nexus or  rational connection between proven conduct under any of the  
criteria listed t herein and an  applicant’s security suitability.  See  ISCR Case No.  95-0611 
at 2 (App. Bd. May 2, 1996).   
O
nce the Government establishes a disqualifying condition by substantial 
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it 
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue his [or her] security 
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01 -20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). The burden of 
disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the G overnment. See ISCR Case No. 
02-31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, 
if they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; see AG ¶ 2(b). 
Analysis  
Security concerns are raised over Applicant’s use and purchase of marijuana, 
over a considerable number of years. More recently, he used and purchased marijuana 
while holding a sensitive position and interim security clearance. 
5 
 
 
 
 
  
   
     
  
  
     
      
   
 
    
     
   
   
   
 
  
     
 
   
   
    
    
   
    
   
 
 
   
     
   
  
   
    
   
   
  
 
 
      
   
    
   
    
Drug and Substance  Abuse  Concerns  
Applicant’s admissions to using and purchasing marijuana regularly in high 
school and college, and more recently while holding an interim security clearance and 
sensitive position with his current employer raise security concerns over his judgment 
and risks of recurrence. The Director of National Intelligence (DNI) has made very clear 
that neither state laws legalizing the use of marijuana and any other drugs considered 
illegal under federal law permit individuals to preempt or otherwise violate federal laws 
banning or restricting the possession of drugs covered by Schedules 1 and 2 of the 
CSA. 
On the strength of the evidence presented, four disqualifying conditions (DCs) of 
the AGs for drug involvement and substance misuse are applicable. DC ¶¶ 25(a), “any 
substance misuse”; 25(c), “illegal possession of a controlled substance, including 
cultivation, processing, manufacture, purchase, sale, or distribution; or possession of 
drug paraphernalia”; 2 5(f), “any illegal drug use while granted access to classified 
information or holding a sensitive position”; and 25(g), “expressed intent to continue 
drug involvement and substance misuse, or failure to clearly and convincingly commit to 
discontinue such misuse,” apply to Applicant’s situation. 
Uncontroverted is Applicant’s discontinuance of using and purchasing marijuana 
since December 2024. Applicant has fully acknowledged his frequent use and 
purchases of marijuana in high school and college long before he ever applied for a job 
requiring a security clearance. He has committed, too, to sustained abstinence from his 
use of marijuana for so long as marijuana is banned by the CSA, irrespective of the 
drug’s legalization by his state of residence. And, the cited marijuana arrest offenses 
that resulted in fines are considerably aged and did not require any continuing court 
oversight. 
Considering all of the circumstances surrounding Applicant’s past involvement 
with marijuana, his recent conditional commitments to abstain from marijuana activity for 
so long as it is federally banned, and his lack of corroborating evidence to support his 
cessation claims, his abstinence commitment claims entitle him to very li mited 
application of potentially available mitigating conditions (MCs) of the drug involvement 
and substance misuse guideline. Neither potentially applicable MC ¶ 26(a), “the 
behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or happened under such unusual 
circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or does not cast doubt on the individual’s 
current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment,” nor any of the other listed 
mitigating conditions are available to Applicant. 
Still, Applicant’s lengthy personal history of marijuana use and purchases 
undercut his commitment to avert all risks of recurrence of marijuana involvement in the 
foreseeable future. Neither misconduct nor uncontroverted claims of sustained 
abstinence (conditioned as they are under the continued CSA ban of marijuana 
possession) are sustainable standing alone without record corroborating evidence. See 
6 
 
 
   
     
   
  
   
    
   
   
  
  
     
 
 
 
 
    
   
   
    
  
  
 
       
   
 
    
   
   
 
 
 
  
            
 
                 
                  
I
SCR Ca se No. 02 -08032 (App. Bd. May 2004) Without more time and corroborating 
evidence of sustained abstinence from the use and purchase of federally banned drugs 
over a more prolonged period of time, other potentially available mitigating conditions 
are inapplicable. 
While this is not a close case, even close cases must be resolved in the favor of 
the national security where doubt exists. See Dept. of Navy v. Egan , supra. Quite apart 
from any judgment reservations the Government may have for the clearance holder 
employed by a defense contractor, the Government has the right to expect the keeping 
of promises and commitments from the trust relationship it has with the clearance 
holder. See Snepp v. United States, 444 U.S. 507, 511 n.6 (1980). 
Summarized,  it is still too soon to make safe predictions that  Applicant  will be 
able to fulfill his  personal  commitment to avoid illegal drugs in the future.  Without a face-
to-face hearing to assess his  credibility, his  abstinence assurances  cannot be reliably  
evaluated  without  corroborating evidence.  
Whole-person assessment  
Whole-person assessment of Applicant’s clearance eligibility requires 
consideration of whether his history of illegal drug use and purchases of marijuana can 
be reconciled with minimum standards for holding a security clearance. Applicant’s 
considerable amount of marijuana use and purchases over a prolonged period of time 
raise serious security concerns about his overall judgment, reliability, and 
trustworthiness. 
While Applicant is to be credited for his contributions to the defense industry, his 
extensive illegal drug activity over an extended number of years (inclusive of his more 
recent use and purchases of marijuana while holding a sensitive position and an interim 
clearance) preclude him from benefitting from any of the potentially available mitigating 
conditions. See ISCR Case No. 02 -07555 at 2-3 (App. Bd. July 19, 2004); ISCR Case 
No. 01-07735 at 2 (App. Bd. June 25, 2002) 
I have carefully applied the law, as set forth in Department of  Navy  v. Egan,  484 
U.S. 518 (1988) , Exec. Or. 10865, the  Directive, and the AGs , to the facts  and  
circumstances in the context  of  the whole person. I  conclude  that illegal drug involvement  
and substance misuse concerns are not  mitigated.  Eligibility for  access to classified  
information  is  denied.    
Formal Findings  
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
7 
      GUIDELINE H (DRUG INVOLVEMENT):      AGAINST APPLICANT  
 
 
                       Subparagraphs  1.a-1.f:                                           
                         
                                                         
 
     
      
    
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Agains t Applicant 
     C onclusion  
In l
ight of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance.  Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Roger C. Wesley 
Administrative Judge 
8 