  
 
 
   
      
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
      
 
     
 
 
        
  
 
           
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
  
  
 
 
  
           
   
   
    
  
    
  
  
 
 
 
 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 24-02161 
Appearances  
For Government: Rhett E. Petcher, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
11/20/2025 
Decision 
FOREMAN, LeRoy F., Administrative Judge: 
This case involves security concerns raised under Guideline F (Financial 
Considerations) and E (Personal Conduct). Clearance is denied. 
Statement  of  the  Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on April 28, 2023. On 
March 26, 2025, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) sent him 
a Statement of Reasons (SOR) alleging security concerns under Guideline F and 
Guideline E. The DCSA acted under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of 
Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance 
Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the adjudicative 
guidelines (AG) promulgated in Security Executive Agent Directive 4, National Security 
Adjudicative Guidelines (December 10, 2016), which became effective on June 8, 2017. 
1 
  
  
  
   
               
   
 
              
                  
     
            
  
 
 
 
               
  
  
               
 
              
   
 
 
 
  
               
                 
                 
  
 
   
    
     
    
 
 
      
                
 
   
              
  
 
                 
Applicant answered the SOR on May 9, 2025, and requested a decision on the 
written record in lieu of a hearing. Department Counsel submitted the Government’s 
written case on June 18, 2025. A complete copy of the file of relevant material (FORM) 
was sent to Applicant, who was given an opportunity to file objections and submit material 
to refute, extenuate, or mitigate the Government’s evidence. The FORM consists of the 
pleadings in the case and the documents in support of the allegations in the SOR. 
(Government Exhibits (GX) 1 through 7) Applicant received the FORM on June 27, 2025, 
and he did not respond or object to any of the exhibits. The case was assigned to me on 
September 29, 2025. My decision was delayed from October 1, 2025, to November 13, 
2025, because administrative judges were furloughed during the shutdown of the federal 
government due to a lapse in funding. 
Findings  of  Fact  
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a 
through 1.e., and 2.a. through 2.h. His admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact. 
Applicant is 46 years old. He received an associate degree in June 2006 and is 
employed as a designer by a defense contractor, since March 2023. He worked as a 
welder for twelve different employers from 2013 through March 2023, at least six of which 
terminated his employment for either a safety violation or a violation of company policy. 
He honorably served in the Army National Guard from October 1997 through April 1999. 
He has never held a security clearance. 
SOR¶ 1.a. alleges and the evidence establishes that Applicant failed to pay, as 
required, federal income taxes for tax years (TYs) 2016 through 2023. In his answer to 
the SOR, he admitted this allegation. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) tax account 
transcripts reflect filed federal income tax returns as follows: TY 2017 filed July 2018; TY 
2018 filed July 2024; TY 2019 filed April 2020; TY 2020 filed May 2021; TY 2021 filed 
April 2022; TY 2022 filed March 2024; and TY 2023 filed October 2024. (GX 3) The record 
is void of IRS documentation regarding TY 2016. Applicant retained the services of a 
professional tax service as legal representatives regarding his IRS tax liability and 
compliance with TY 2023 filing requirements. (GX 3 at 6) 
SOR ¶ 1.b. alleges and the evidence establishes that Applicant failed to pay, as 
required, state income taxes for tax years 2013, 2015, and 2016. In his answer to the 
SOR, he admitted this allegation, however, he provided no additional documentary 
evidence. 
SOR ¶ 1.c. alleges and the evidence establishes a federal tax debt for delinquent 
taxes in the amount of $59,024 for tax years 2016 through 2023. This debt is reflected in 
Applicant’s response to Government interrogatories and the supporting IRS tax account 
transcripts for said tax years. (GX 3 at 5, 27 -40) In his answer to the SOR, Applicant 
admitted this allegation. When he was interviewed by a security investigator in May 2023, 
he stated that though he intends to pay his outstanding taxes, he had not yet done so 
because he was awaiting a response from the IRS regarding a settlement agreement. 
(GX 3 at 18-21) He did not provide any additional evidence with his answer to the SOR. 
2 
  
   
 
  
 
 
   
  
   
 
  
    
           
    
  
   
   
    
   
   
   
 
                
    
 
             
            
                 
             
   
               
 
   
             
               
As of February 2025, Applicant’s legal representatives are attempting to secure an 
installment agreement with the IRS for $950/month to cover all balances owed through 
TY 2023. (GX 3 at 26) 
SOR ¶  1.d. alleges  and the evidence establishes a state tax  debt for delinquent  
taxes  in  the  amount  of  $6,338.51  for  TY  2013,  2015,  and  2016.  In  his  answer  to  the  SOR,  
Applicant admitted this allegation. He provided no documentary evidence regarding this  
state  tax  debt.  As  of  February  2025,  he  set  up  automated  debit  transactions  in  the  amount  
of $285 a month beginning in March 2025 through February 2027 to resolve this debt.  
(GX  3 at 45)  However, the record is void of evidence of any actual payments  made.  
Documentary  evidence shows  that he made a payment agreement  with the s tate tax  
authority,  dated November 20,  2024,  assigning monthly payments of $243 beginning  
December  2024  to  address  outstanding  taxes  for  TY  2015  and  2016,  totaling  $5,413.88.  
(GX 6) However, the record is again void of  evidence of any actual  payments made.  
SOR ¶ 1.e. alleges and the evidence establishes a charged- off debt to a credit 
union in the approximate amount of $1,021. This debt is reflected in a credit report from 
May 2023. (GX 7) In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted this debt and provided 
no evidence of resolution. 
SOR ¶ 2.a. through 2.h. allege and the evidence establishes eight separate 
terminations from eight different employers from 2013 through 2023. In his SCA, Applicant 
lists fifteen separate employers from December 2012 through present. He noted 
“Involuntary Separation” or “Involuntary Discharge” as his reason for leaving eight of the 
fifteen listed employments. He also answered “Yes” indicating he was “Fired” as his 
reason for separation from six of the fifteen listed employments. (GX 2 at 10 - 27) When 
he was interviewed by a security investigator in May 2023, he confirmed the information 
he provided in his SCA regarding his employment history. (GX 3 at 8-11) 
SOR ¶ 2.a alleges that Applicant was terminated from his employment with a 
construction company in February 2023 for a safety violation. Company safety protocol 
required the removal of all combustible materials within at least 35 feet of the worksite 
before commencing any welding. Applicant failed to remove his kneepad, which caught 
on fire once he started welding. He put the fire out immediately and avers that no damage 
was caused. He was terminated on the following day. (GX 2 at 13; GX 3 at 8) 
SOR ¶ 2.b alleges that Applicant was terminated from his employment with a ship 
repair company in December 2022, for violation of company policy prohibiting employees 
from having their cell phones on the ship or in their working area. He had been previously 
disciplined about the same violation in November 2022. He had also previously received 
discipline from the same employer for violation of company policy for failure to follow 
protocol regarding combustible material in November 2022. (GX 2 at 15-16; GX 3 at 8-9) 
SOR ¶ 2.c alleges that Applicant was terminated from his employment with a 
construction company in October 2019 for violation of company policy. During his subject 
interview, he confirmed that although he knew it was against safety policy to weld without 
3 
  
   
    
 
              
  
                 
    
    
    
 
  
 
  
    
 
    
 
 
   
            
  
            
 
  
  
            
 
               
              
 
   
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
     
 
  
   
            
having someone in a fire watch position with him, on the day of his violation, he welded 
without a fire watch person present. (GX 2 at 17; GX 3 at 9) 
SOR ¶ 2.d alleges that Applicant was terminated from his employment with a boat 
repair company in April 2019 for violation of company safety policy. He was required to 
cut all gas lines and remove them from the space he was working during his lunch break 
and at the end of the workday. Though he knew it was against company policy to not 
remove the gas line, he did not do so during his lunch break because it took time away 
from his lunch break. (GX 2 at 18; GX 9-10) 
SOR ¶ 2.e alleges that Applicant was terminated from his employment with a 
federal contractor in January 2019 for violation of company safety policy. He had a 
disagreement with one of his supervisors about lack of overtime hours which escalated 
into a verbal argument resulting in his termination. (GX 2 at 19-20; GX at 10) 
SOR ¶ 2.f alleges that Applicant was terminated from his employment with a 
shipbuilding company in October 2018 for violation of company safety policy. A security 
officer at the company approached Applicant and asked him for his employee badge, 
because the security officer asserted Applicant was speeding in a company parking lot. 
Applicant refused to comply and was thereafter terminated the following week for violation 
of company policy. (GX 2 at 21; GX at 10) 
SOR ¶ 2.g alleges that Applicant was involuntarily separated from his employment 
with a federal contractor in June 2015. He confirmed his termination during his subject 
interview, however had no recollection of the reason or circumstances surrounding his 
termination. (GX 2 at 23-24; GX at 11) 
SOR ¶ 2.h alleges that Applicant was involuntarily separated from his employment 
by a federal contractor in June 2013. He confirmed his termination and explained that it 
was due to an error he made when he was overtired and accidentally inputted the wrong 
program into the computer, resulting in cutting the same product twice when only one was 
required. Due to the cost of the metal sheets and the additional cut product being 
scrapped, he was terminated. (GX 2 at 26-27; GX at 11) 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
4 
  
   
           
  
    
 
  
   
   
   
  
  
 
  
                
  
  
  
          
   
   
  
    
 
   
  
  
    
   
   
  
               
 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
decision. An administrative judge must consider all available and reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation 
about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865 
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant 
has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have 
established for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan at 531. Substantial 
evidence is “such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to 
support a conclusion in light of all the contrary evidence in the same record.” See IS CR 
Case No. 17- 04166 at 3 (App. Bd. Mar. 21, 2019). It is “less than the weight of the 
evidence, and the possibility of drawing two inconsistent conclusions from the evidence 
does not prevent [a Judge’s] finding from being supported by substantial evidence.” 
Consolo v. Federal Maritime Comm’n, 383 U.S. 607, 620 (1966). “Substantial evidence” 
is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. Washington Metro. Area 
Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines presume a nexus or 
rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria listed therein and 
an applicant’s security suitability. ISCR Case No. 15-01253 at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 20, 2016). 
Once the Government establishes  a disqualifying condition by substantial  
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain, extenuate, or  mitigate the  
facts. Directive ¶  E3.1.15. An applicant  has the burden of proving a mitigating condition,  
and the burden of  disproving it  never shifts to the Government.  See  ISCR Case No. 02- 
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep.  22,  2005).  
An  applicant  “has  the  ultimate  burden  of  demonstrating  that  it  is  clearly  consistent  
with  the  national  interest  to  grant  or  continue  his  security  clearance.”  ISCR  Case  No.  01- 
20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  Egan  at 531.  
5 
  
    
         
 
   
  
 
      
         
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
          
    
 
  
 
       
 
 
Analysis 
Guideline F, Financial Considerations  
The security concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self-control, lack of judgment, or unwillingness 
to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise questions about an 
individual's reliability, trus tworthiness, and ability to protect classified or 
sensitive information. An individual who is financially 
overextended is at greater risk of having to engage in illegal or otherwise 
questionable acts to generate funds. . . . 
This concern is broader than the possibility that a person might knowingly 
compromise classified information to raise money. It encompasses concerns about a 
person’s self-control, judgment, and other qualities essential to protecting classified 
information. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible, 
unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding classified information. See ISCR 
Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012). 
Applicant’s admissions and the evidence in the FORM establish the following 
disqualifying conditions under this guideline: 
AG  ¶  19(a):  inability  to  sati
 sfy  debts;  
AG  ¶  19(c):  a  history  of  not  mee ting  financial  obligations;  and  
AG ¶ 19(f): failure to file or fraudulently filing annual federal, state,  or loc al  
income tax returns or  failure to pay annual federal, state, or local income 
tax as required.  
The follo
wing mitigating conditions are potentially applicable: 
AG ¶ 20(a): the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or  
occur
red  under  such  circumstances  that  it  is  unlikely  to  recur  and  does  not  
cast doubt  on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  
judgment;  
AG  ¶  20(b):  the  c onditions  that  r esulted  in  the  financial  problem  were  largely  
beyond the person's control (e.g., loss  of employment,  a business  downturn,  
unexpected medical  emergency, a  death, divorce or separation, clear  
victimization  by predatory lending pr actices, or identity theft),  and  the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
AG ¶ 20(c): the individual  has rec eived or is  receiving financial counseling  
for the  problem  from  a  legitimate  and  credible  source,  such  as  a  non-profit  
6 
  
 
 
 
    
  
            
               
 
             
                
  
   
 
   
   
 
 
    
             
   
     
  
                  
           
 
  
               
    
 
  
   
  
 
 
               
            
      
 
credit counseling service, and there are clear indications that the problem  
is being resolved or is  under control;  
AG ¶ 20(d): the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- faith  effort to  
repay overdue creditors or otherwise resolve  debts; and  
AG  ¶  20(g):  the  i ndividual  has  made  ar rangements  with  the  appropriate  tax 
authority to file or  pay the amount owed and is in compliance with those  
arrangements.  
AG ¶ 20(
a) is not established. Applicant’s delinquent debts are numerous and 
accrued during a long period of time, and he has presented insufficient evidence to meet 
his burden to show that they were incurred under circumstances that are unlikely to recur. 
AG ¶ 20(b) is not established. Applicant presented no evidence to support that his 
tax problems alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a -1.d or the delinquent consumer debt alleged in SOR 
¶ 1.e were due to circumstances largely beyond his control or that he took responsible 
action at the time of the occurrence. 
AG ¶ 20(c) is not established. Though Applicant retained legal representation to 
assist him in addressing his IRS tax debt, he did not obtain financial counseling and 
provided insufficient evidence to establish that the financial issues were being resolved 
or under control. 
AG ¶ 20(d) is not established. Although Applicant provided evidence that he 
entered into two different payment plan agreements with the state department of revenue 
to address SOR ¶ 1.d., he did not provide evidence of actual compliance with either 
payment arrangement. As for his federal tax debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.c., although he 
provided evidence that he retained the services of tax professionals to assist in an offer 
in compromise or setting up a payment plan with the IRS, he did not provide proof of entry 
into a formal agreement or any evidence of the like from the IRS to indicate negotiations 
or a resolution. 
AG ¶ 20(g) is not established. Although Applicant provided evidence that he has 
filed, albeit some late, his federal income tax returns for TY 2017 to 2024, his federal tax 
debt detailed in SOR ¶¶ 1.a. and 1.c. remain delinquent and any installment agreement 
or plan for repayment remains to be established and/or entered into at a future date. 
Moreover, although he provided evidence that he entered into an agreement to resolve 
his state tax debt alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.b. and 1.d., he did not provide evidence of actual 
compliance with either of those agreements. 
Guideline  E,  Personal  Conduct  
The security concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 15: “Conduct involving 
questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or unwillingness to comply with rules 
and regulations can raise questions about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and 
ability to protect classified or sensitive information.” 
7 
  
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
       
 
 
 
   
  
                
    
    
   
       
Applicant’s admissions and the evidence in the FORM establish the following 
disqualifying condition under this guideline: 
AG  ¶  16(d):  credible  adverse  information  that  is  not  explicitly  covered  under  
any  other guideline and may not  be sufficient  by itself for an adverse  
determination,  but which, when combined with all available information,  
supports a whole- person assessment  of questionable judgment,  
untrustworthiness,  unreliability,  lack  of  candor,  unwillingness  to  comply  with  
rules and regulations,  or other characteristics indicating that the individual  
may  not  properly  safeguard  classified  or  sensitive  information.  This  includes,  
but is  not limited to, consideration of:  
(1)  untrustworthy or unreliable behavior to include breach of client  
conf
identiality, release of proprietary information,  unauthorized  
release of sensitive corporate or  government protected  
information;  
(2)  any  disruptive,  vio lent,  or  other  inappropriate  behavior;  
(3)  a  pattern  of  dis honesty  or  rule  violations;  and  
(4)  evidence  of  sign ificant  misuse  of  Government  or  other  employer's  
time or  resources.  
Applic
ant’s terminations from eight of his last fifteen employments spanning back 
to 2013 establish a pattern of rule violations and inappropriate behavior sufficient to 
establish disqualification under this guideline. 
The following mitigating conditions are potentially applicable: 
AG ¶ 17(c): the offense is so minor, or so much time has passed,  or the  
beh
avior  is  so  infrequent, or   it  happened  under  such  unique  circumstances  
that it is unlikely to recur and does not cast  doubt on the individual’s  
reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;  and  
AG ¶  17(d): th e individual has acknowledged the behavior and obtained  
counsel
ing  to  change  the  behavior  or  taken  other  positive  steps  to  alleviate  
the stressors, circumstances, or factors  that  contributed to untrustworthy,  
unreliable, or   other  inappropriate  behavior,  and  such  behavior  is  unlikely  to 
recur.  
Neither 
mitigating condition is established. Though it has been over two years 
since Applicant’s last rule violation and termination, the offenses are of a similar nature 
and repeat in a way that indicate he has not learned from his past. His nonchalant attitude 
towards the safety protocols set in place for his protection and the protection of others 
raises concerns about his ability to follow rules and regulations set in place for the 
protection of classified information. Given the lengthy history and frequency of his 
violations, mere passage of time, absent evidence of an established change in behavior 
8 
  
                 
  
 
 
 
           
     
             
 
  
 
 
              
  
   
     
 
 
            
 
 
              
   
 
 
 
  
or other positive steps taken to address the behavior to ensure that it is unlikely to recur, 
is insufficient to meet his burden of providing evidence of mitigation. 
Whole-Person  Analysis  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant a security 
clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. An administrative judge must evaluate 
an applicant’s security eligibility by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct and 
all the relevant circumstances. An administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature,  extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which  participation  is  voluntary;  (6)  the  presence  or  absence  of  rehabilitation  
and  other  permanent  behavioral  changes;  (7)  the  motivation  for  the  conduct;  
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation,  or  duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
I have incorporated my comments under Guidelines F and E in my whole -person 
analysis and applied the adjudicative factors in AG ¶ 2(d). After weighing the disqualifying 
and mitigating conditions under Guidelines F and E, and evaluating all the evidence in 
the context of the whole person, I conclude Applicant has not mitigated the security 
concerns raised by his financial and personal conduct problems. 
Formal  Findings  
I make the following formal findings on the allegations in the SOR: 
Paragraph  1,  Guideline  F  (Financial  Considerations):  AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 1.a  –  d:  Against Applicant  
Paragraph 2, Guideline E (Personal Conduct):  AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 2.a  - h:  Against Applicant  
Conclusion  
I conclude that it is not clearly consistent with the national security interests of the 
United States to grant Applicant eligibility for access to classified information. Clearance 
is denied. 
LeRoy F. Foreman 
Administrative Judge 
9 