 
 
  
 
  
        
         
           
             
 
 
  
  
                    
   
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
   
  
 
  
   
 
    
   
  
   
   
 
    
 
  
  
___________ 
___________ 
DEPAR
TMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance  
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 24-02323 
Appearances  
For Government: Cassie L. Ford, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
08/20/2025 
Decision 
HARVEY, Mark, Administrative Judge: 
Security concerns arising under Guidelines H (drug involvement and substance 
misuse) and J (criminal conduct), are mitigated; however, security concerns under 
Guideline E (personal conduct) are not mitigated. Eligibility for access to classified 
information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On March 13, 2024, Applicant completed and signed an Electronic Questionnaires 
for Investigations Processing (e- QIP) or a security clearance application (SCA). 
(Government Exhibit (GE) 1) On February 3, 2025, the Defense Counterintelligence and 
Security Agency (DCSA) issued a statement of reasons (SOR) to Applicant under 
Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry, 
February 20, 1960; Department of Defense ( DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial 
Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (Directive), January 2, 1992; and Security 
Executive Agent Directive 4, establishing in Appendix A the National Security Adjudicative 
Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to 
Hold a Sensitive Position (AGs), effective June 8, 2017. (Hearing Exhibit (HE) 2) 
The SOR detailed reasons why the DCSA did not find under the Directive that it is 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant or continue a security 
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
 
     
   
   
 
     
   
    
  
 
 
  
 
 
     
     
     
 
     
   
  
   
     
        
 
 
 
   
  
    
   
  
      
clearance for Applicant and recommended referral to an administrative judge to 
determine whether a clearance should be granted, continued, denied, or revoked. 
Specifically, the SOR set forth security concerns arising under Guidelines H , J, and E. 
(HE 2) On March 7, 2025, Applicant provided a response to the SOR and requested a 
hearing. (HE 3) On April 21, 2025, Department Counsel was ready to proceed. 
On April 28, 2025, the case was assigned to me. On May 5, 2025, the Defense 
Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a notice scheduling the hearing for June 
11, 2025. (HE 1) The hearing was held as scheduled. 
Department Counsel offered two exhibits into evidence; Applicant did not provide 
any exhibits; there were no objections; and I admitted all proffered exhibits into evidence. 
(Transcript (Tr.) 15-16; GE 1-GE 2) On July 1, 2025, DOHA received a transcript of the 
hearing. No exhibits were proffered after the hearing. 
Some details were excluded to protect Applicant’s right to privacy. Specific 
information is available in the cited exhibits and transcript. 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 
1.f, 2.a, 3.a, and 3.b . (HE 3) He also provided mitigating information. (HE 3) His 
admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Additional findings follow. 
Applicant is a 35-year-old aircraft mechanic who has been employed by a Defense 
contractor since March of 2024. (Tr. 7, 18, 36) He has never held a security clearance. 
(Tr. 36) In 2009, he graduated from high school. (Tr. 7) He has not attended college, and 
he has not served in the military. (Tr. 7, 18) He has been common-law married for about 
one month. (Tr. 7) He has one child with his current wife and one child from a previous 
relationship. (Tr. 8) His children are ages 2 and 10 years old. (Tr. 8) 
Drug Involvement,  Substance Misuse, and Criminal Conduct  
Applicant’s SOR alleges  under Guideline H, and Applicant  admitted: ¶  1.a--From 
about  April 2003 until  at least December 2022, he used  marijuana with varying frequency;  
¶ 1.b --From about  May  2003 until about  October 2022,  he  purchased marijuana on  
various  occasions;  ¶ 1.c--From about 2013  until  about 2018,  he  sold marijuana on various  
occasions;  ¶ 1.d --In about  November  2018,  he  was  charged with possession of  
marijuana;  ¶ 1.e--In about 2016, he was  charged with possession of  marijuana; and 1.f--
In about July  2007,  he  tested positive for marijuana on a drug test.  
Applicant first used marijuana when he was 13 years old. (Tr. 19) He used 
marijuana on a weekly basis when he was in his late teens. (Tr. 20) He purchased 
marijuana mostly from friends over the years. (Tr. 20- 21) In 2007, h e applied for 
employment; he tested positive on a drug test for marijuana; and he was not hired for the 
employment. (Tr. 21 -22) He believed at some points in his life that he was addicted to 
marijuana. (Tr. 23) He knew his marijuana use in May of 2022 was federally illegal. (Tr. 
2 
 
 
  
  
   
   
 
  
      
  
  
 
     
   
      
    
    
     
 
 
    
     
 
 
    
  
     
       
   
        
    
    
   
     
     
   
 
    
     
   
       
      
21)  His most recent use of marijuana was  around December  2022. (Tr.  30)  He was hazy  
on the most recent date of his  marijuana use. (Tr.  33)  He used delta- 8 
tetrahydrocannabinol  (THC)  after he stopped using marijuana that he purchased in  
cannabidiol  (CBD)  shops  in the vicinity  of his residence. (Tr.  34,  39)  He stopped using  
delta-8 THC at about the time he received his current employment, and he estimated it  
was in April or May  of  2024. (Tr. 37-38)  
In 2016, the police stopped Applicant’s vehicle and found a gram of marijuana in 
it. (Tr. 27) He arrived at court late, and the prosecutor said the court would contact him 
about rescheduling. (Tr. 28) He never heard from the court. (Tr. 28) 
In 2018, the police stopped Applicant’s vehicle for a traffic infraction . (Tr. 24 -27) 
The police found marijuana in his vehicle and issued a citation to him. (Tr. 25) He pleaded 
guilty and received pretrial diversion. (Tr. 2 6, 28) He completed the six-month probation 
period, and he paid the fine and costs. (Tr. 26, 28) 
From about 2013 until about 2017 or 2018, Applicant sold marijuana on various 
occasions. (Tr. 24; HE 3) His marijuana sales were not very profitable. (Tr. 23) He sold 
small amounts of marijuana to his friends. (Tr. 23) He used most of his profits to purchase 
marijuana for his own marijuana use. (Tr. 24) His state of residence has not legalized 
marijuana possession, use, or sales. (Tr. 21) He does not associate with others who he 
knows use marijuana. (Tr. 29-30) He has not received substance-abuse counseling. (Tr. 
35) 
Under Guideline J, Applicant’s SOR alleges and Applicant admitted for SOR ¶ 2.a 
that SOR ¶¶ 1.c through 1.e above constitute criminal conduct. 
Personal Conduct  
Under Guideline E, Applicant’s SOR alleges, and Applicant admitted that he 
falsified material facts on his March 13, 2024 SCA, in response to the following requests: 
For SOR ¶ 3.a: “Section 23 - Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity” asked him to “Provide 
an estimate of the month and year of first use” of illegal drugs, and “'Section 23 - Illegal 
Use of Drugs or Drug Activity” asked him to “Provide an estimate of the month and year 
of most recent use” of illegal drugs. He answered “04/2008” and “05/2020” respectively, 
and thereby deliberately failed to disclose that information as set forth in SOR ¶ 1.a, 
above. For SOR ¶ 3.b: “Section 23 - Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity” asked him “In 
the last seven (7) years, have you been involved in the illegal purchase, manufacture, 
cultivation, trafficking, production, transfer, shipping, receiving, handling or sale of any 
drug or controlled substance?” He answered “No”, and thereby deliberately failed to 
disclose that information as set forth in SOR ¶¶ 1.b. and 1.c., above. 
In his March 13, 2024 SCA, Applicant said he did not intend to use marijuana in 
the future. (GE 1) On August 21, 2024, an Office of Personnel Management (OPM) 
investigator interviewed Applicant. He disclosed the marijuana involvement indicated in 
SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.f. In addition, he said he most recently used delta-8 THC in July 
2024. (GE 2) On December 22, 2024, he responded to DOHA interrogatories, and he 
3 
 
 
   
    
  
     
 
 
  
    
   
  
     
  
 
    
   
   
    
    
    
 
    
  
   
   
  
  
    
  
   
   
   
    
    
   
    
    
 
  
 
   
    
   
    
  
 
 
 
said, “After my [OPM] interview I came to the conclusion to not use marijuana in the future 
regardless of its legalization.” (GE 2) 
In Applicant’s SOR response, he said: 
I am writing this to express my desire to continue in the process of acquiring 
my government security clearance. I wish to say that I deeply regret having 
not fully disclosed all factors listed within the statement of reasons at the 
beginning of this process. This regret and desire to be fully honest within 
my interview is what led me to disclose these inconsistences. I wish to 
express that since starting this process nearly a year ago I have been in line 
with all security and behavior needs at my place of employment and have 
even raised physical safety concerns to my superiors. The work being done 
here is crucial to the future of the safety and security of the nation that my 
family and I have called home for my entire existence, and I wish to continue 
this work that has given a greater feeling of purpose to my employment, and 
existence than I have ever known. I know that I have errored in my lack of 
[disclosure], and I can only ask for forgiveness for that error. I felt quite some 
amount of shame for those actions, and was unsure if that [disclosure] 
would have eliminated me from consideration. I have prior to now and will 
in the future stalwartly reject any use of controlled substances regardless of 
the determinations made concerning my security clearance. I have stayed 
away from illegal substances for some time now and have no desire to 
return to their use. Nor associate with those who do or engage in any of the 
behaviors or acts listed in the statement of reasons. Despite my prior acts 
and use of substances, I have always maintained gainful employment and 
aided with those in need in my family and neighborhood. My prior acts and 
use of these substances never came before my job, family, or other 
responsibilities at any point in my life. I would sooner die than put anything 
before my loved ones, job, or responsibilities in that manner. I cannot undo 
my prior actions but hope that my [disclosures] now can in some way atone 
for their initial absence. I hope that my determination on this matter is 
believed, and proven over time so my skills can be put to the best use I 
could possibly imagine by helping secure my nation today and in the future. 
I again deeply regret my prior lack of [disclosure], and my desire to disclose 
was to not enter into this critical [role] based on only a partial admission of 
facts. 
At his hearing, he said he deeply regretted his history of involvement with 
marijuana and his falsification of his SCA. (Tr. 32) He promised to be honest in the future. 
(Tr. 32) One of the reasons he did not disclose his history of marijuana use was because 
he was worried that he would not receive the employment he was seeking. (Tr. 33) He 
described his desire to continue to serve the United States as an employee of a 
government contractor because he wants to contribute to the national defense. (Tr. 17) 
4 
 
 
 
  
 
   
     
   
    
   
 
     
     
 
 
  
  
   
    
 
   
 
  
 
  
   
  
   
   
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
     
Policies  
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion of the Executive 
Branch in regulating access to information pertaining to national security emphasizing, 
“no one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 
518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to “ control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual 
is sufficiently trustworthy” to have access to such information. Id. at 527. Th e President 
has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants eligibility for 
access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly consistent with the 
national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation 
about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Clearance 
decisions must be “in terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a 
determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 § 7. 
Thus, this decision should not be construed to suggest that it is based, in whole or in part, 
on any express or implied determination about applicant’s allegiance, loyalty, or 
patriotism. It is merely an indication the applicant has not met the strict guidelines the 
President, Secretary of Defense, and Director of National Intelligence have established 
for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 95 -0611 at 2 
(App. Bd. May 2, 1996). 
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition by substantial 
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the 
5 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
   
      
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
facts. Directive ¶  E3.1.15. An applicant “has  the ultimate burden of  demonstrating that it  
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant  or continue his [or  her] security  
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01- 20700 at  3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). The bur den of  
disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the Government.  See  ISCR Case No. 02-
31154 at  5 (App. Bd.  Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  Egan, 484 U.S. at 531;  see  AG  ¶ 2(b).   
Analysis  
Drug Involvement,  Substance Misuse,  and Criminal Conduct  
AG ¶ 24 describes the security concern about drug involvement and substance 
misuse: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual's reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person's ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any “controlled substance” as 
defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in 
this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
AG ¶ 30 describes the security concern about criminal conduct, “Criminal activity 
creates doubt about a person’s judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness. By its very 
nature, it calls into question a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, r ules, 
and regulations.” 
AG ¶ 25 provides three drug involvement and substance misuse conditions that 
could raise a security concern and may be disqualifying in this case: “(a) any substance 
misuse (see above definition)”; “(b) testing positive for an illegal drug”; and “(c) illegal 
possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation, processing, manufacture, 
purchase, sale, or distribution; or possession of drug paraphernalia.” 
AG ¶ 31 provides t wo criminal conduct conditions that could raise a security 
concern and may be disqualifying in this case: 
(a) a pattern of  m
 inor offenses, any  one of which on its own would be  
unlikely to affect a  national security eligibility decision, but which in  
combination cast doubt on the individual’s judgment, reliability, or  
trustworthiness;  and  
(b) evidence (including, but not limited to, a credible allegation, an 
adm
ission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of  
whether the individual  was formally charged,  prosecuted, or convicted.  
6 
 
 
     
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AG ¶¶ 2 5(a), 26(b), 25(c), 31(a), and 31(b) are established. Discussion of the 
disqualifying conditions is in the mitigating section infra. 
AG ¶ 26 lists four conditions that could mitigate drug involvement and substance 
misuse security concerns: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or ha
 ppened  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur  or does not cast doubt  
on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good judgment;  
(b) the individual acknowledges  his  or her drug involvement and substance  
misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and  
has established a pattern of  abstinence, including, but not limited to:  
(1)  disassociation from drug-us ing associates  and contacts;  
 (2) c hanging or avoiding the environment where drugs were used;  and  
 (
3) providing a signed statement  of intent to abstain from all drug  
involvement  and substance misuse, acknowledging that any  future  
involvement or misuse is  grounds  for revocation of  national security  
eligibility;  
(c) abuse of prescription drugs was  aft er  a severe or prolonged illness  
during which these drugs were prescribed, and abuse has since ended; and  
(d) satisfactory completion of a prescribed drug treatment program,  
inc
luding, but not limited to, rehabilitation and aftercare requirements,  
without recurrence of  abuse, and a favorable prognosis  by  a duly  qualified  
medical professional.  
AG ¶
 32 lists four conditions that could mitigate criminal conduct security concerns: 
(a) so much time has  elaps ed since the criminal behavior happened, or it  
happened under such unusual circumstances, that it is unlikely to recur and  
does not cast doubt on the individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, or good  
judgment;  
(b) the individual was pressured or coerced into committing the act and  
thos
e pressures are no longer present in the person’s life;  
(c) no reliable evidence to support that the individual committed the offense;  
and  
(d) there is evidence of successful rehabilitation; including, but not limited  
to,
 the passage of time without recurrence of criminal activity, restitution,  
compliance with the terms of parole or  probation, job training or higher  
7 
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
   
   
 
 
    
 
 
  
  
    
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
    
 
  
   
 
 
   
 
    
  
  
 
education, good employment record, or constructive community 
involvement. 
In ISCR Case No. 10- 04641 at 4 (App. Bd. Sept. 24, 2013), the DOHA Appeal 
Board concisely explained Applicant’s responsibility for proving the applicability of 
mitigating conditions as follows: 
Once a concern arises regarding an Applicant’s security clearance 
eligibility, there is a strong presumption against the grant or maintenance of 
a security clearance. See Dorfmont v. Brown, 913 F. 2d 1399, 1401 (9th 
Cir. 1990), cert. denied, 499 U.S. 905 (1991). After the Government 
presents evidence raising security concerns, the burden shifts to the 
applicant to rebut or mitigate those concerns. See Directive ¶ E3.1.15. The 
standard applicable in security clearance decisions is that articulated in 
Egan, supra. “Any doubt concerning personnel being considered for access 
to classified information will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Directive, Enclosure 2, [App. A] ¶ 2(b). 
Applicant admitted that he pos sessed,  used, purchased,  and sold  marijuana.  
Marijuana is  listed on Schedule I  of the Controlled Substances Act  (CSA). See  21 U.S.C.  
§ 812(c); Drug Enforcement Administration  (DEA) listing at  https://www.dea.gov/drug-
information/drug-scheduling.  Possession  and sale of  marijuana is  a federal and state  
criminal offense in the state where Applicant resides.  
The DOHA Appeal Board cited the importance of consideration of “the changing 
landscape of marijuana law and . . . of the Director of National Intelligence’s Clarifying 
Guidance Concerning Marijuana. ” ISCR Case No. 23 -02402 at 4 (App. Bd. Feb. 19, 
2025). See also ISCR Case No. 24 -00914 at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 9, 2025) (noting the 
“evolving landscape of marijuana law and policy,” “the resulting increasing prevalence of 
marijuana use,” and in some instances “recreational marijuana use deserves less, or even 
no negative inference on judgment.”). 
The SecEA promulgated clarifying guidance concerning marijuana- related issues 
in security clearance adjudications as follows: 
[Federal] agencies are instructed that prior recreational marijuana use by 
an individual may be relevant to adjudications but not determinative. The 
SecEA has provided direction in [the adjudicative guidelines] to agencies 
that requires them to use a “whol e-person concept.” This requires 
adjudicators to carefully weigh a number of variables in an individual’s life 
to determine whether that individual’s behavior raises a security concern, if 
at all, and whether that concern has been mitigated such that the individual 
may now receive a favorable adjudicative determination. Relevant 
mitigations include, but are not limited to, frequency of use and whether the 
individual can demonstrate that future use is unlikely to recur, including by 
signing an attestation or other such appropriate mitigation. Additionally, in 
light of the long-standing federal law and policy prohibiting illegal drug use 
8 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
   
    
     
    
     
   
    
     
   
       
     
   
     
 
      
        
  
    
  
    
    
 
 
 
  
while occupying a sensitive position or  holding a security clearance,  
agencies are encouraged to advise prospective national security workforce  
employees that they should refrain from any future marijuana use upon  
initiation of the national security vetting process, which commences once  
the individual signs the certification contained  in the Standard Form 86 (SF-
86),  Questionnaire for National Security Positions.  
Security Executive Agent Clarifying Guidance Concerning Marijuana for Agencies 
Conducting Adjudications of Persons Proposed for Eligibility for Access to Classified 
Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (Dec. 21, 2021) at 2 (quoted in ISCR 
Case No. 20-02974 at 3-4 (App. Bd. Feb. 1, 2022)). 
Applicant’s SOR alleges under Guideline H, and Applicant  admitted: ¶ 1.a--From 
about  April 2003 until  at least December 2022, he used  marijuana with varying frequency;  
¶ 1.b --From about May 2003 until about  October 2022, he purchased marijuana on  
various occasions; ¶ 1.c--From about 2013  until  about 2018,  he  sold marijuana on various  
occasions;  ¶ 1.d --In about  November  2018,  he  was  charged with possession of  
marijuana; ¶ 1.e--In about 2016, he was  charged with possession of  marijuana; and 1.f--
In about July 2007,  he  tested positive for  marijuana on a drug test.  The SOR did not  
allege; however, he admitted that  he used  marijuana until about  December 2022,  and he  
used delta-8 THC or CBDs until about March of 2024.   
Applicant presented some important mitigating information. H e ended his misuse 
of delta-9 marijuana around December 202 2. His most recent use of delta-8 marijuana 
was in July of 2024. However, the record does not establish that Applicant’s delta-8 THC 
use was a violation of federal law at the time he used it. There is mixed authority for 
whether possession or use of delta- 8 THC violates federal law. See Anderson v. 
Diamondback Investment Group, LLC, 117 F.4th 165, 184-85 (4th Cir. 2024) (discussing 
delta-8 THC and noting that the 2018 Agriculture Improvement Act “exempts ‘hemp,’ a 
product defined as ‘the plant Cannabis sativa L. and any part of that plant, including the 
seeds thereof and all derivatives, extracts, [and] cannabinoids . . . with a delta- 9 [THC] 
concentration of not more than 0.3 percent on a dry weight basis,’ from Schedule I of the 
CSA”); Ak Futures LLC v. Boyd St. Distro, LLC , 35 F.4th 682 (9th Cir. 2022) (stating 
same). Applicant’s admission that he used delta-8 THC did not include an admission that 
it contained delta-9 THC above the 0.3 percent threshold. 
Applicant disclosed his marijuana involvement in his response to DOHA 
interrogatories, in his SOR response, and at his hearing. His misuse of marijuana after 
2018 was not discovered through a polygraph test , investigative efforts, or a urinalysis 
test. He avoids persons and environments where illegal drugs are used or likely to be 
used. No marijuana use occurred while he had access to classified information or held a 
sensitive position. He promised not to use illegal drugs in the future. He did not have a 
drug use disorder diagnosis, and there is no recommendation that he receive drug 
counseling or treatment. 
Applicant’s decisions to possess and use illegal drugs are an indication he lacks 
the qualities expected of those with access to national secrets. However, the time between 
9 
 
 
   
  
  
     
    
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
    
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
     
   
  
 
 
 
 
Applicant’s most recent involvement with delta -9 THC and his hearing was about 30 
months, December 2022 to June 11, 2025 (the date of his hearing), and this period of 
abstaining from marijuana possession and use, and his sincere and credible promise not 
to use marijuana in the future are sufficient under all the circumstances to fully establish 
AG ¶¶ 26(a) and 32(a). His involvement with illegal drugs is unlikely to recur and does not 
cast doubt on his current reliability, trustworthiness, and judgment. Gui delines H and J 
security concerns are mitigated. 
Personal Conduct  
AG ¶ 15 explains why personal conduct is a security concern stating: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect 
classified information. Of special interest is any failure to provide truthful 
and candid answers during the security clearance process or any other 
failure to cooperate with the security clearance process. . . . 
AG ¶ 16 lists personal conduct disqualifying conditions that are potentially relevant 
in this case as follows: 
(a) deliberate omission, concealment,  or falsification of  relevant facts from  
any personnel  security questionnaire, personal  history  statement,  or similar  
form  used to conduct  investigations, determine employment qualifications,  
award benefits or  status, determine  national security eligibility or  
trustworthiness, or  award fiduciary responsibilities;  
The SOR alleges, and the record evidence establishes AG ¶ 16(a). Further details 
will be discussed in the mitigation analysis, infra. AG ¶ 17 lists conditions that could 
mitigate personal conduct security concerns: 
(a) the individual  m
 ade prompt,  good-faith efforts to correct the omission,  
concealment,  or falsification before being confronted with the facts;  
(b) the refusal or failure to cooperate, omission, or concealment was caused  
or  s
ignificantly contributed to by  advice of legal counsel  or of  a person with  
professional  responsibilities for advising or instructing the individual  
specifically concerning security  processes. Upon being made aware of the  
requirement to cooperate or  provide the  information, the individual  
cooperated fully  and truthfully;   
(c) the offense is so minor, or so much time has passed, or the behavior is  
s
o infrequent,  or it happened under such unique circumstances that it is  
unlikely to recur  and  does not  cast  doubt on the i ndividual’s reliability,  
trustworthiness, or  good judgment;  
10 
 
 
 
 
     
 
   
   
 
    
   
    
      
       
 
     
   
       
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
    
 
   
(d) the individual has acknowledged the behavior and obtained counseling  
t
o change the be havior or taken other positive steps to alleviate the  
stressors, circumstances, or factors  that  contributed to untrustworthy,  
unreliable, or  other inappropriate behavior, and such  behavior is  unlikely to  
recur;  
(e) the individual has  t aken positive steps to reduce or eliminate vulnerability  
to  exploitation,  manipulation, or duress;  and  
(f) the information was unsubstantiated or from a source of  questionable  
reliability.  
In A
pplicant’s March 13, 2024 SCA, he failed to disclose the full scope of his 
marijuana involvement. He admitted that he intentionally omitted complete information 
about his marijuana involvement because he was worried that he would not receive the 
employment he was seeking. 
In his August 21, 2024 OPM interview, he said he most recently used delta-8 THC 
in July 2024. He affirmed the accuracy of his summary of OPM interview on December 
22, 2024. At his hearing, he said he most recently used delta-8 THC around the time of 
the start of his employment in March, April, or May of 2024. The discrepancy between the 
dates of his most recent delta-8 THC use is minor and of no security significance. 
No mitigating conditions apply to the falsifications of Applicant’s March 13, 2024 
SCA because they are recent; they were intentional; and they are serious . His 
falsifications of his SCA cast doubt on his reliability, trustworthiness, and judgment. 
Personal conduct security concerns are not mitigated. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all the circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), “[t]he ultimate determination” of whether to grant a security 
clearance “must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration” 
of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. My comments under Guidelines H, J, and 
11 
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
   
      
 
  
 
  
      
     
 
  
    
     
   
   
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
     
   
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
E are incorporated in my whole- person analysis. Some of the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) were 
addressed under those guidelines but some warrant additional comment. 
Applicant is a 35-year-old aircraft mechanic who has been employed by a Defense 
contractor since March of 2024. He has never held a security clearance. In 2009, he 
graduated from high school. He has not attended college. I found Applicant to be a sincere 
and candid witness. 
It is well settled that once a concern arises regarding an applicant’s security 
clearance eligibility, there is a strong presumption against granting a security clearance. 
See Dorfmont, 913 F. 2d at 1401. “[A] favorable clearance decision means that the record 
discloses no basis for doubt about an applicant’s eligibility for access to classified 
information.”  ISCR Case No. 18-02085 at 7 (App. Bd. Jan. 3, 2020) (citing ISCR Case 
No. 12-00270 at 3 (App. Bd. Jan. 17, 2014)). 
I have carefully applied the law, as set forth in Egan, Exec. Or. 10865, the Directive, 
the AGs, and the Appeal Board’s jurisprudence, to the facts and circumstances in the 
context of the whole person. Drug involvement and substance misuse and criminal 
conduct security concerns are mitigated; however, personal conduct security concerns 
are not mitigated. 
This decision should not be construed as a determination that Applicant cannot or 
will not attain the state of reform necessary for award of a security clearance in the future. 
With more of an established history of honest disclosure of security -related information, 
he may well demonstrate persuasive evidence of his security clearance worthiness. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline H:   FOR  APPL
ICANT   
Subparagraphs  1.a  through 1.f:  For  Applicant  
Paragraph 2,  Guideline J:   FOR APPL ICANT   
Subparagraph 2.a:  For  Applicant  
Paragraph 3,  Guideline E:   AGAINST  APPL ICANT   
Subparagraphs  3.a and 3.b:  Against  Applicant  
12 
 
 
 
      
 
    
 
 
 
 
  
 
Conclusion  
Considering all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant Applicant eligibility for 
access to classified information. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Mark Harvey 
Administrative Judge 
13 