 
                                                              
 
 
                                                             
 
  
           
             
 
 
    
  
       
  
   
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
   
 
 
    
     
       
  
      
    
 
  
 
         
   
   
    
______________ 
______________ 
DEPAR
TMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00067 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Rhett E. Petcher, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
07/25/2025 
Decision 
HALE, Charles C., Administrative Judge: 
This case involves security concerns raised under Guideline F (Financial 
Considerations). Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on September 1, 2022. 
On January 26, 2024, the Department of Defense (DoD) sent him a Statement of Reasons 
(SOR) alleging security concerns under Guideline F. The DoD acted under Executive 
Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 
20, 1960), as amended; D oD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security 
Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the 
adjudicative guidelines (AG) promulgated in Security Executive Agent Directive 4, 
National Security Adjudicative Guidelines (December 10, 2016). 
Applicant answered the SOR on August 28, 2024, and requested a hearing before 
an administrative judge. Department Counsel was ready to proceed on September 30, 
2024, and the case was assigned to me on April 2, 2025. On May 6, 2025, the Defense 
Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) notified Applicant that the hearing was scheduled 
1 
 
 
 
   
      
     
     
     
    
       
   
   
 
 
       
   
 
 
        
   
     
   
   
        
   
 
      
    
      
   
    
 
   
 
 
for June 10, 2025, and at Applicant’s request the hearing was rescheduled for June 25, 
2025. I convened the hearing as rescheduled. Government Exhibits (G E) 1 through 7 
were admitted in evidence without objection. Applicant testified but did not submit any 
documentary evidence. He did not present any witness testimony. I held the record open 
until July 23, 2025, to enable either side to submit documentary evidence. Applicant 
submitted six images, which have been marked Applicant Exhibit (AE) A through AE F 
and his statement in his email was marked as AE G, and all were admitted into evidence. 
AE F was admitted over the Government’s objection. DOHA received the transcript (Tr.) 
on July 8, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant admitted all debts alleged, SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.e. His admissions are 
incorporated into the findings of fact. 
Applicant  is  a 46-year-old  communications technician. He  served honorably  in the 
U.S. Army  as a signal support system specialist  from 2000 to 2004.  After  he was 
discharged from the Army he has worked in this  field to the present.  He  regularly  travels  
overseas for work.  He has held a security clearance s ince 2000.  (GE 1;  GE 2;  Tr. 18-20.)  
Applicant has never married and has no children. From 2018 until December 2024, 
he had a girlfriend who resided in a Central American country. He took regular trips, at 
least once a year , to visit her, which he disclosed on his security clearance application. 
He sent her about $3,000 a year. Round trip flights were around $500. He had hotel and 
rental car expenses on top of his airfare. In 2023, he took three trips to see his girlfriend, 
and he also flew her to a Caribbean island where he and his family were vacationing. (GE 
1; Tr. 59-63.) 
In his February 28, 2023 interview with a DoD investigator , Applicant discussed 
his financial situation. He estimated his monthly household income was $5,600, with 
monthly expenses of $2,000. He reported his monthly expenses as $345, for credit card 
payments, cell phone, and various memberships. He indicated he had $13,600 in assets, 
with a checking account balance of $1,800 and a car valued at $12,000. The interview 
continued in June 2023 after Applicant returned from an overseas trip. He and the 
investigator discussed the debts alleged in SOR 1.a, 1.d, and 1.e. (GE 2.) 
Guideline F  
SOR ¶ 1.a:  You are indebted to a [debt  collection company]  for an account  
that has been placed for  collection by  [your property manager]  in the approximate  
amount of $21,483.00. As of the date of  this S tatement of Reasons, the account  
remains delinquent.  Applicant  discussed the debt with the DoD investigator in June 
2023, which he was not aware of  at the time of interview  and  stated  he  would   investigate  
the matter. In response to Government interrogatories, he stated that  there was  a 
discrepancy about  his  move-out  date and  as  a result he was still being charged  rent.  He 
testified  when he submitted his interrogatory answers , he  still did not believe  it was a 
2 
 
 
 
 
   
    
  
    
   
      
     
   
      
         
   
 
   
      
    
     
    
   
   
      
 
legitimate debt and  said it  had been “fabricated.”  He admitted  at the hearing  he did not  
comply with the lease termination provisions  when he  moved out  and turned in his keys  
and parking pass  to the concierge.  As a result,  his lease was  renewed,  and he had 
stopped his lease payments. He testified  he did not realize he had not complied with the  
lease until a coworker identified the issue while he was working on his SCA. He  testified  
he  recently received an offer  from  the creditor  to  settle the account for $10,000.  He  
testified he has not  made any  payments towards the debt.  After the hearing he offered an  
image from his  debit card “transaction details”  page indicating he had paid his  property  
manager $10,741.53 o n July 15, 2025, and a letter  dated July 17,  2025,  from  the property  
manager stating the debt was satisfied. (GE  2; GE 4; GE 6; GE 7;  AE A; AE E;  Tr.  12-13, 
30-36.)   
SOR ¶ 1.b: You are indebted to [a debt collector] for an account that has been
placed for collection by [a car dealer] in the approximate amount of $5,161. As of 
the date of this Statement of Reasons, the account remains delinquent . Applicant 
admitted responsibility for this debt in his Answer and stated he had taken no action on 
the debt. He stopped making payments in 2023. He did not have the account set to 
automatically pay each month. He made the payments himself by logging onto the 
account. He testified he has not been in contact with the creditor. In his post -hearing 
submission, he stated this was his last remaining bill and that he made a payment with 
them the day prior to the submission deadline, and he now has a monthly pay plan. He 
stated he anticipated having it paid off in a couple weeks. (Answer; GE 6; GE 7; AE G; 
Tr. 40, 55.) 
SOR ¶ 1.c: You are indebted to [a debt collector] for an account that has been
placed for collection by [a cable provider] in the approximate amount of $80. As of 
the date of this Statement of Reasons, the account remains delinquent. Applicant in 
his Answer admitted the debt. He had taken no action on the debt. He testified “No update 
on status, but I clearly didn’t pay that out today.” He stated he probably forgot about the 
debt. After the hearing he offered an image of an email dated July 17, 2025, stating his 
payment of $80.37 had been successfully processed but the debt collector does not 
match with the debt collector listed in the SOR. (Answer; GE 7; AE F; Tr. 40.) 
SOR ¶ 1.d: You are indebted to [credit card company]  on an account that has  
been charged off in the  approximate  amount of $1,263. As of the date of this  
Statement of Reasons, the account  remains  delinquent.  Applicant  stopped  making 
payments on his credit card.  In his Answer,  he  admitted the debt and  he  confirmed the 
account in his testimony . He discussed the  debt with the  DoD investigator  in February  
and June of 2023  and acknowledged to the investigator he had t he means  to pay off the  
debt.  He told the investigator he had  "no real reason or excuse"  for  why he  had  not made 
any payments  on  the debt.  At the hearing he stated he had  not made  any payments, but 
that  the month prior  he had contacted the creditor  and was waiting to hear back from  the  
creditor about settlement.  He cited his recent  move and trying to accumulate savings for  
waiting to initiate contact with the creditor.  After the hearing he offered an  image of  a 
payment  schedule dated July 18 , 2025, stating his  agreed-upon payment s were 
$1,137.48,  and if he failed to comply with the plan,  he would owe the full amount  of  
3 
 
 
 
  
   
      
  
      
  
       
    
  
 
       
      
  
 
 
      
  
  
     
    
  
      
 
 
  
   
    
   
      
    
 
     
  
  
   
   
   
 
 
    
   
    
$1,263.87. He offered images  of his  account showing his  balance with the credit card  
company was now zero.  (GE 2;  GE 4;  AE  B-AE  D;  Tr. 41-42.)  
SOR ¶ 1.e: You are indebted to [debt collector] for an account that has been 
placed for collection by [an electrical company] in the approximate amount of $290.
As of the date of this Statement of Reasons, the account remains delinquent. In his 
Answer, Applicant admitted the debt and confirmed t he account in his testimony. He 
discussed the debt with the DoD investigator in the June 2023 interview and told the 
investigator he planned to pay it in July upon his return from an overseas trip. He has not 
made any payments on the debt. At the hearing he stated the account was in dispute. 
(GE 2; GE 4; Tr. 42, 58.) 
As mitigation, Applicant testified he had reduced his living expenses by moving in 
with his parents. His father gifted him a vehicle so he would not have a car payment. (Tr. 
7, 13, 20-21, 58-59.) 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
decision. An a dministrative judge must consider all available and reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865 
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant 
4 
 
 
 
   
  
 
   
   
  
  
 
  
  
   
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
   
   
 
  
         
  
 
 
   
    
   
  
          
   
 
  
has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have 
established for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The g uidelines 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 15-01253 at 3 
(App. Bd. Apr. 20, 2016). 
Once the  G overnment establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial  
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive  ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of  proving a mitigating condition,  
and the burden of disproving it  never shifts to the  Government.  See  ISCR Case No.  02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep.  22,  2005).   
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent  
with the national interest to grant or continue  his security clearance.”  ISCR Case No.  01-
20700 at  3 (App. Bd.  Dec. 19, 2002).  “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  Egan, 484 U.S. at 531.   
Analysis  
Guideline F, Financial Considerations  
The security concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one ’s means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual ’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. An individual who is financially 
overextended is at greater risk of having to engage in illegal or otherwise 
questionable acts to generate funds. . . . 
This concern is broader than the possibility that a person might knowingly 
compromise classified information to raise money. It encompasses concerns about a 
person’s self-control, judgment, and other qualities essential to protecting classified 
information. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible, 
unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding classified information. See ISCR 
Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012). 
Applicant’s admissions and the documentary evidence establish the following 
5 
 
 
 
   
   
 
        
 
 
 
 
 
      
     
        
    
  
      
   
        
   
 
  
     
    
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
 
   
      
disqualifying conditions under this guideline: AG ¶ 19(a) (inability to satisfy debts) and AG 
¶ 19(c) (a history of not meeting financial obligations). 
The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 are relevant: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or oc curred under  
such  circumstances that it is unlikely to recur  and does  not cast doubt on the  
individual’s  current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;  
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial  probl em were largely beyond  
the person’s control  (e.g., loss of employment,  a business downturn,  
unexpected medical emergency, a death, divorce or separation, clear  
victimization by predatory lending practices, or identity theft), and the  
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
(d) the individual  ini tiated and is adhering to a good- faith effort to repay  
overdue  creditors or otherwise resolve debts; and  
(e) the individual has a reasonable basis to dispute the legitimacy of the past-
due debt  whi
ch is the cause of the problem and provides documented proof  
to substantiate the  basis of the dispute or provides evidence of actions to  
resolve the issue.  
AG ¶¶ 20
(a), 20(b), and 20(d) are not applicable. Applicant’s financial difficulties 
may have resulted in part because of a landlord - tenant dispute, which could be a 
circumstance beyond his control. However, by his own admission, he did not comply with 
the lease. The credit reports do not support his testimony that he disputed the utility 
account. Applicant was on notice in 2023 of at least three of the alleged debts and instead 
he elected to use discretionary money to travel to Central America several times a year 
to visit his girlfriend , while his accounts were delinquent. Applicant has not acted 
responsibly under the circumstances, and this casts doubt on his current reliability, 
trustworthiness, and good judgment. 
An applicant must initiate and adhere “to a good faith effort to repay overdue 
creditors or otherwise resolve debts” to receive full credit under AG ¶ 20(d). See ISCR 
Case No. 08-06058 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 21, 2009). Evidence of past irresponsibility is not 
mitigated by payment of debts only under pressure of qualifying for a security clearance. 
Applicant did not offer any documentation of payment actions or his contacts with 
creditors, about potential settlements, until after the hearing. His actions are reactive to 
the security clearance process. He failed to show a track record of payments to his 
creditors or good-faith efforts in regard to his delinquent debts until his security clearance 
was in jeopardy. Applicants who begin to address their security -significant conduct only 
when their personal interests are at stake may be lacking in judgment and reliability. ISCR 
Case No. 16- 01211 (App. Bd. May 30, 2018). A security clearance adjudication is an 
evaluation of an individual’s judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness. It is not a debt -
collection procedure. ISCR Case No. 09- 02160 (App. Bd. Jun. 21, 2010.) Even if an 
6 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
   
  
   
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
  
 
    
   
  
    
    
  
 
 
   
 
          
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
applicant has paid his or her debts, an administrative judge may still consider the 
circumstances underlying the debts for what they may reveal about the applicant’s 
eligibility for a clearance. ISCR Case No. 14-02394 (App. Bd. Aug. 17, 2015.) AG ¶ 20(d) 
does not apply. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. In applying the whole-
person concept, an administrative judge must evaluate an applicant’s eligibility for a 
security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct and all relevant 
circumstances. An administrative judge should consider the nine adjudicative process 
factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
I have considered Applicant’s honorable military service and his long history of 
continuous employment and work overseas. However, a fter weighing the disqualifying 
and mitigating conditions under Guideline F and evaluating all the evidence in the context 
of the whole person, and mindful of my obligation to resolve close cases in favor of 
national security, I conclude Applicant has not mitigated the security concerns based on 
financial considerations. 
Formal Findings  
I make the following formal findings on the allegations in the SOR: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:      AGAINST APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 1.a
 -1.e:  Against Applicant  
7 
 
 
 
 
          
      
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion  
I conclude that it is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant 
Applicant eligibility for access to classified information. Clearance is denied. 
Charles C. Hale 
Administrative Judge 
8 