 
 
                                                                                                                    
          
           
             
 
 
 
    
  
        
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
       
 
 
 
        
           
     
       
        
       
     
     
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-01305 
) 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: William Miller, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Jason Ayeroff, Esq. 
03/18/2025 
Decision 
GOLDSTEIN, Jennifer I., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant mitigated the security concerns under Guideline H (Drug Involvement 
and Substance Misuse) . Applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information is 
granted. 
Statement of the Case  
In connection with her employment with a defense contractor, Applicant submitted 
a security clearance application (SCA) on October 4, 2023. On September 9, 2024, the 
Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency ( DCSA) Consolidated Adjudication 
Services (CAS) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security 
concerns under Guideline H. The DCSA CAS issued the SOR under Executive Order 
(Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 
1960), as amended; Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial 
Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended 
1 
 
 
      
  
 
       
        
         
         
         
  
 
       
          
       
         
    
        
 
 
 
 
       
             
           
         
  
 
        
       
  
 
     
  
        
           
           
        
        
     
     
       
         
      
(Directive); and Security Executive Agent Directive 4, National Security Adjudicative 
Guidelines (AG). 
Applicant answered the SOR on September 23, 2024, and requested a hearing 
before an administrative judge. (Answer) On March 11, 2025, the case was assigned to 
me. On that day, the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a Notice 
setting the hearing for March 13, 2025. Applicant waived the 15-day notice requirement. 
Applicant’s hearing was held as scheduled in the vicinity of Arlington, Virginia using the 
Microsoft Teams video teleconference system. (Id.) 
During the hearing, Department Counsel offered one hearing exhibit and two 
government exhibits (GE) 1-2; Applicant offer ed 12 exhibits (AE) A-L; and all proffered 
exhibits were admitted into evidence without objection. Applicant also offered a brief 
requesting administrative notice of four documents , which were received into the record 
without objection. The record was left open until close of business on March 13, 2025. 
Applicant timely submitted one exhibit, AE M, which was admitted without objection. On 
March 17, 2025, DOHA received a copy of the transcript. 
Some  details were   excluded  to  protect Applicant’s right to  privacy. Specific   
information is available in the cited exhibits and transcript.  
Findings of Fact   
Applicant is a 38-year-old digital strategist employed by a government contractor 
since 2015. She is unmarried and has no children. She earned a bachelor’s degree in 
2010, a master’s degree in software engineering in 2017, and a master’s in business 
administration in 2020. Her 2023 SCA was her first time applying for a security clearance. 
(AE A; GE 1; Tr. 54) 
Applicant first used marijuana i n college. She used it a couple of times , trying to 
impress her friends. She did not like how it made her feel. She did not use marijuana 
again until 2021. (AE H, Tr. 73-76) 
Applicant was in an abusive relationship in 2019. That relationship resulted in her 
suffering with depression and anxiety. In 2021, she sought mental-health treatment. She 
discussed her depression and anxiety with a doctor. The p rescription drugs 
recommended by her doctor (Dr. A) made her uneasy due to their listed side effects. She 
discussed alternative treatments with Dr. A . While Dr. A could not prescribe medical 
marijuana, both Dr. A and Applicant’s therapist were supportive of her seeking medical 
marijuana treatment and discussed with her the pros of using medical marijuana. She 
sought treatment from another physician (Dr. B) to get a medical marijuana prescription. 
That doctor reviewed her medical and mental -health treatment records, examined her, 
and diagnosed her with depression and anxiety. They also discussed her debilitating 
menstrual cramps. Dr. B. prescribed various cannabis-derived treatments from October 
2021 through July 2024. They included edibles, gummies, vapes, cigarettes, a spray, and 
2 
 
 
         
          
         
       
           
   
 
      
      
        
          
            
        
          
        
            
        
    
 
         
          
       
       
             
           
         
          
   
 
    
         
        
           
    
           
      
 
 
        
           
        
 
 
        
          
a tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD) topical cream. She used vapes and 
cigarettes to treat her anxiety attacks. She used marijuana products about 10 to 20 times 
per month. She used edibles to control her depression. The spray and cream helped with 
her menstrual pain. She was prescribed up to 30 grams of medical marijuana per month. 
Her treatments did not cause her to feel intoxicated or high. (AE F, AE G, AE H, AE K; Tr. 
30-37, 55-67, 77-79) 
While m edical marijuana helped her temporarily to manage her anxiety , 
depression, and pain, s he continued to search for other treatment methods too. She 
testified that cannabis was never meant to be a permanent solution to her medical 
problems. The vapes and cigarettes triggered her asthma, and she used them 
infrequently because they caused her to cough . She followed up with Dr. B every six 
months during the period she was prescribed medical marijuana . He would adjust her 
dosage. She also continued to see her therapist and Dr. A., who recently sent her to a 
rheumatologist. The rheumatologist prescribed Applicant a muscle relaxer to ease her 
cramps, which provides her with relief equal to that of using the cannabis products. She 
follows up with her doctor ever three months. She uses physical fitness to help with mental 
health, and she eats cleanly. (AE H, Tr. 30-38, 46-51) 
At each step of the SCA process, Applicant has been honest about her medical 
marijuana use. She fully disclosed her marijuana use on the SCA, despite knowing it was 
illegal under Federal law. She was also honest and fully discussed it with the investigator. 
She also answered government interrogatories. When the interrogatories asked her if her 
employer had a drug policy, she was unsure and sought to find the policy for the first time. 
She read it and found she needed to inform the contractor’s accommodations team of her 
medical marijuana use. She immediately reached out to that team and reported her 
medical marijuana use. She does not recall getting the drug policy in 2015 during new 
employee orientation. (GE 2; AE J; Tr. 38-43) 
Applicant surrendered her medical marijuana card in early September 2024. Prior 
to surrendering it, she had not purchased any marijuana products since April 2024. She 
has not used marijuana or any marijuana derivative product since July 29, 2024, when 
she last used the THC and CBD topical cream, vape cartridges, and soft chews for her 
menstrual cramps. After that last use, she threw out her left-over THC and CBD products. 
She signed a statement of intent to abstain from marijuana use and indicated that any 
future use of marijuana or other drugs will result in the loss of her clearance. (AE K; Tr. 
44, 69-72) 
Applicant completed therapy on September 12 , 2024, at which point she was 
discharged after completing all treatment goals. She found that t herapy helped he r 
healing process. She learned coping skills and also now has a spiritual advisor. (AE F; 
Tr. 51) 
Applicant presented seven letters from personal and professional references. She 
has a strong reputation for being a highly respected and trustworthy member of her 
3 
 
 
   
        
           
         
         
           
    
 
 
 
         
       
          
 
 
      
        
      
          
 
 
 
      
    
         
       
         
  
 
 
        
  
organization’s community. Several references also noted her kindness, resiliency, and 
integrity. She also included employee feedback she has received from work interactions, 
that reflect she is knowledgeable and delivers exceptional results to clients. She has also 
been nominated for Black Engineer of the Year in 2020, received a cash award for her 
passionate service in 2023 , received an employee appreciation award in 2024, and 
earned the champion’s heart award in 2024. She is involved in a non -profit organization 
that focuses on racial equity in science, technology, engineering, and math. (AE B, AE C, 
AE D, AE E) 
Policies  
It is well established that no one has a right to a security clearance. As the 
Supreme Court has held, “the clearly consistent standard indicates that security 
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of Navy v. 
Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988). 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These  guidelines  are  not  inflexible  rules  of  law. Instead,  recognizing  the  
complexities of human  behavior, these  guidelines are applied  in conjunction  with  the  
factors  listed  in  the  adjudicative  process. The  administrative  judge’s  overarching  
adjudicative  goal is a  fair, impartial, and  commonsense  decision. According  to  AG ¶  2(a),  
the  entire process is a  conscientious scrutiny  of several variables known as the   “whole-
person  concept.” The  administrative  judge  must consider all  available, reliable  information  
about the  person, past and  present, favorable and  unfavorable, in making a  decision.   
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a] ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. Likewise, I have not drawn inferences grounded on mere 
speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive  ¶  E3.1.14, the  Government  must present evidence  to  establish  
controverted  facts alleged  in the   SOR. Under Directive ¶  E3.1.15, an   “applicant is   
responsible  for presenting  witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or  
mitigate  facts  admitted  by  applicant or proven  by Department  Counsel and  has  the  
ultimate burden of persuasion to  obtain a favorable security decision.”  
A person who seeks access to classified information enters a fiduciary relationship 
with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship transcends 
4 
 
 
   
         
     
       
       
  
 
 
 
 
          
      
     
        
       
      
       
       
          
        
 
 
 
 
normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government reposes a 
high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to classified 
information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk the 
applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. Such 
decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, rather 
than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Analysis  
DOD and Federal Government Policy on Marijuana Use   
On  October 25, 2014, the  Director of  National Intelligence, issued  a  memorandum  
titled, “Adherence  to  Federal Laws Prohibiting  Marijuana  Use” addressing  concerns  
raised  by  the  decriminalization  of  marijuana  use  in  several  states and  the  District of  
Columbia. The  memorandum states that changes  to state and local laws do not alter the  
existing  National Security Adjudicative  Guidelines. “An  individual’s  disregard  for  federal  
law pertaining  the  use,  sale,  or manufacture  of marijuana  remains  adjudicatively relevant  
in national security determinations.”  
On May 26, 2015, the Director of the United States Office of Personnel 
Management (OPM) issued a memorandum titled, “Federal Laws and Policies Prohibiting 
Marijuana Use.” The Director of OPM acknowledged that several jurisdictions have 
decriminalized the use of marijuana, allowing the use of marijuana for medicinal purposes 
and/or for limited recreational use but states that Federal law on marijuana remains 
unchanged. Marijuana is categorized as a controlled substance under Schedule I of the 
Controlled Substances Act. Thus, knowing or intentional marijuana possession is illegal, 
even if the individual has no intent to manufacture, distribute, or dispense marijuana. 
While the Department of Justice may not spend funds to enforce medical marijuana laws, 
and the former President pardoned individuals convicted under this law, the law itself has 
not changed. (Administrative Notice Document) 
On  December 21, 2021,  the  Director of  National Intelligence  signed  the  
memorandum, Security Executive  Agent Clarifying  Guidance  Concerning  Marijuana  for  
Agencies Conducting  Adjudications of Persons Proposed  for Eligibility for Access to  
Classified  Information  or Eligibility to  Hold a  Sensitive  Position.  It  emphasizes  that  federal  
law remains  unchanged  with  respect  to  the  illegal use,  possession, production  and  
distribution  of marijuana. Individuals who  hold a clearance or occupy a sensitive position  
are prohibited  by law from  using  controlled  substances. Disregard of federal law  
pertaining to  marijuana (including prior recreational marijuana  use) remains relevant,  but  
not determinative,  to  adjudications of eligibility.  Agencies  are  required  to use  the  “whole-
person  concept” stated  under SEAD 4, to  determine  whether the  applicant’s behavior  
raises a security concern that has not been mitigated.   
Guideline H, Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse  
5 
 
 
   
 
         
         
       
       
     
     
        
       
        
   
 
    
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
The concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non -prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual's reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person's ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any "controlled substance" as 
defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in 
this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
The following disqualifying conditions under AG ¶ 25 are potentially applicable: 
(a) any substance  misuse (see above  definition); and  
(c)  illegal possession  of a  controlled  substance, including  cultivation,  
processing, manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession  of  
drug paraphernalia.  
Applicant’s voluntary disclosures,  admissions,  and  testimony  at  the  personal  
appearance  establish  AG ¶¶  25(a)  and  25(c).  The  Government’s substantial evidence   
and  Applicant’s own admissions  raise  security concerns under  Guideline  H. The  burden  
shifted  to  Applicant to  produce  evidence  to  rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate  the  
security concerns.  (Directive  ¶  E3.1.15) An  applicant  has  the  burden  of  proving  a  
mitigating  condition, and  the  burden  of disproving  it never shifts to the  Government.  See  
ISCR Case No. 0231154 at 5 (App. Bd. September 22, 2005).  
The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 26 are potentially applicable: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or happened  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur or does  not cast  doubt  
on  the  individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  judgment;  and  
(b) the  individual acknowledges his or her drug  involvement and  substance  
misuse,  provides evidence  of actions taken  to  overcome  this problem, and  
has established  a pattern of abstinence, including, but not limited  to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts;  
(2) changing  or avoiding  the  environment  where drugs  were  used; 
and  
(3) providing  a  signed  statement of intent  to  abstain from  all  drug  
involvement and  substance  misuse, acknowledging  that any future  
6 
 
 
 
       
       
   
      
    
        
         
         
         
            
  
 
      
          
          
              
           
          
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
     
        
          
involvement or misuse  is grounds for revocation  of national security  
eligibility.  
AG ¶ 26(a) is established. Applicant’s marijuana use happened under such 
circumstances that are unlikely to recur, and her past use does not cast doubt on her 
current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment. Applicant sought medical marijuana 
to help treat her anxiety, depression, and severe menstrual cramps. She knew that those 
treatments would only offer temporary relief, and she continued to seek other treatments 
while using the marijuana prescriptions. She has learned to manage her anxiety and 
depression through therapy, and she recently completed treatment. Further, she now 
sees a rheumatologist who has prescribed her an effective treatment to control her 
cramps. Her past use of THC and CBD products does not cast doubt on her current 
judgment, as she has found other ways to treat her conditions. She is unlikely to use 
marijuana in the future. 
AG ¶ 26(b) is established. Applicant has acknowledged her drug involvement and 
has abstained from drug use since July 29, 2024. She has surrendered her medical 
marijuana card to her state authority. She has provided the required statement of intent 
to abstain, and sh e has altered h er lifestyle to focus on h er health through diet and 
exercise. She discarded her unused marijuana products. She has not gone to a medical 
marijuana store since April 2024, and there is no evidence that she has used marijuana 
in a social setting since she was in college. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the  whole-person  concept,  the  administrative judge  must  evaluate  an  
applicant’s eligibility for a  security clearance  by considering  the  totality of the  applicant’s  
conduct and  all  relevant circumstances.  The  administrative  judge  should  consider the  
nine  adjudicative  process factors listed at AG  ¶ 2(d):  
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  
and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct;  
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.  
I have incorporated my comments under Guideline H and the AG ¶ 2(d) factors in 
my whole-person analysis. This is Applicant’s first time applying for security clearance 
eligibility. She has been forthright with the government about her medical THC and CBD 
use at every stage of this clearance process. While she used marijuana frequently, and 
7 
 
 
   
        
 
 
 
        
    
 
    
 
      
   
 
        
     
   
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
has only abstained for about six months, she is sincere in her promise to not use it in the 
future. She has offered sufficient evidence to rehabilitate herself despite her past 
marijuana use. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  H:   FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a-1.c:  For Applicant 
Conclusion  
Considering all the circumstances presented by the record, it is clearly consistent 
with the interests of national security to grant Applicant eligibility for access to classified 
information. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Jennifer I. Goldstein 
Administrative Judge 
8 