 
                                                                                                                    
          
           
             
 
 
 
 
   
  
                  
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
       
     
   
       
    
    
      
  
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-01004 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: George Hawkins, Esquire, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Alan Edmunds, Esquire 
03/11/2025 
Decision 
CEFOLA, Richard A., Administrative Judge: 
Statement  of the Case  
On October 23, 2018 , and again on September 20, 20 23, Applicant submitted 
security clearance applications (SF-86s). On August 27, 2024, in accordance with DoD 
Directive 5220.6, as amended (Directive), the Department of Defense issued Applicant a 
Statement of Reasons (SOR) alleging facts that raise security concerns under Guidelines 
H and E. The action was taken under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information Within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of 
Defense Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) 
effective within the Department of Defense on June 8, 2017. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
             
      
        
        
      
       
       
    
 
 
 
   
         
  
 
      
         
      
               
 
 
 
         
        
                
                
       
        
 
 
 
 
 
 
          
        
           
             
Applicant answered the SOR in writing (Answer) on October 3, 2024 , and 
requested a hearing before an administrative judge. The case was assigned to me on 
January 29, 2025. The Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a Notice 
of Hearing on February 5, 2025. I convened the hearing as scheduled on February 18, 
2025. The Government offered Government Exhibits 1 through 4, which were admitted 
without objection. Applicant testified on his own behalf and presented Applicant Exhibits 
(AppXs) A through R, which were admitted without objection . DOHA received th e 
transcript of the hearing (TR) on March 3, 2025. The record was left open until February 
26, 2025, for the receipt of additional evidence , however, Applicant submitted nothing 
further. The record closed at that time. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant admitted to the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a~1.d. and 2.b. He denied SOR 
allegation ¶ 2.a. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and 
testimony, I make the following findings of fact. 
Applicant is a 28-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has a master’s 
degree and has been employed with the defense contractor since September 2019. He 
has held a security clearance since February 2019 . He is not married, and has no 
children. (TR at page 6 lines 8~24, at page 14 line 23 to page 16 line 18, and GX 1 at 
page 36.) 
Guideline H - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
1.a, 1.b . and 2.b. Applicant used marijuana with varying frequency from about 
2014~2017. He also used marijuana once , in 2021, while holding a security clearance. 
(TR at page 18 line 19 to page 20 line 7, at page 21 lines 1~4, at page 37 line 24 to page 
38 line 2, and at page 40 line 22 to page 41 line 22.) Applicant has submitted a Statement 
of Intent against any future drug involvement and substance misuse , and submitted the 
results of two negative drug tests in September and December of 2024. (AppXs A, B and 
N.) 
1.c, 1.d. and 2.b. Applicant used the prescription medication Adderall, that was not 
prescribed to him, with varying frequency from about 2015~2016. He also used Adderall 
once, in 2022, while holding a security clearance. (TR at page 20 line 8 to page 21 line 9, 
and at page 38 line 22 to page 39 line 15.) Applicant has submitted a Statement of Intent 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          
 
 
 
       
         
       
         
            
        
       
    
             
        
         
   
 
      
 
      
        
   
        
   
 
           
      
         
       
   
      
            
 
 
 
      
    
         
       
against any future drug involvement and substance misuse, and submitted the results of 
two negative drug tests in September and December of 2024. (AppXs A, B and N.) 
Guideline E  - Personal Conduct  
2.a. Applicant answered “No” to “Section 23 – Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity 
Misuse of Prescription Drugs In the Last seven (7) years (Emphasis supplied)” on his 
October 2018 SF-86. (GX 2 at page 34.) Applicant avers that “It was so long ago that I 
had forgotten the use.” He corrected this oversight during his January 2024 response to 
Government Interrogatories. (TR at page 21 lines 18~21, and GX 3 at pages 5 and 6.) 
Not alleged; but in evidence, he also answered “No” to “Section 23 – Illegal Use of Drugs 
or Drug Activity Misuse of Prescription Drugs In the Last seven (7) years (Emphasis 
supplied)” on his September 2023 SF-86. (GX 1 at page 35.) Again, Applicant avers that 
“It was so long ago that I had forgotten the use.” He also corrected this oversight during 
his January 2024 response to Government Interrogatories. (TR at page 21 lines 18~21, 
and GX 3 at pages 5 and 6.) Applicant has submitted six letters in support of his character, 
from those who know Applicant in the workplace and in his community. (AppXs H~L.) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for national security eligibility, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines (AG) list 
potentially disqualifying conditions and mitigating condition s, which are to be used in 
evaluating an applicant’s national security eligibility. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. The entire 
process is a conscientious scrutiny of applicable guidelines in the context of a number of 
variables known as the whole -person concept. The administrative judge must conside r 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
        
  
 
         
         
       
       
     
     
        
       
        
   
 
contained in the record. I have not drawn inferences based on mere speculation or 
conjecture. 
Directive ¶  E3.1.14, requires the  Government to  present evidence  to  establish  
controverted  facts alleged  in the   SOR. Under Directive ¶  E3.1.15, an   “applicant is   
responsible  for presenting  witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or  
mitigate  facts admitted  by the  applicant or proven  by Department Counsel, and  has the  
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining  a favorable clearance  decision.”  
A  person  applying  for national security eligibility seeks to  enter into  a  fiduciary  
relationship  with  the  Government predicated  upon  trust and  confidence. This relationship  
transcends normal duty hours and  endures throughout off-duty  hours. The  Government  
reposes a  high  degree  of trust and  confidence  in individuals to  whom  it grants national  
security eligibility.  Decisions include,  by  necessity,  consideration  of  the  possible  risk the  
applicant may  deliberately or inadvertently  fail  to  protect,  or safeguard  classified  
information. Such  decisions entail  a  certain degree  of legally permissible  extrapolation  as  
to  potential, rather than  actual, risk of  compromise of classified  or sensitive information.  
Finally, as  emphasized  in Section  7  of Executive  Order 10865,  “[a]ny  determination  under  
this order adverse to  an  applicant  shall  be  a  determination  in  terms of the  national interest  
and  shall  in no  sense  be  a  determination  as to  the  loyalty of  the  applicant concerned.”  
See also Executive  Order 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing  multiple prerequisites  for access  
to classified or sensitive information.)  
Analysis  
Guideline H - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
The security concern relating to the guideline Drug Involvement and Substance 
Misuse is set forth at AG ¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non -prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual's reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person's ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any "controlled substance" as 
defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in 
this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
 
 
 
 
 
          
             
 
 
       
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
        
         
      
The guideline at AG ¶ 25 contains seven conditions that could raise a security 
concern and may be disqualifying. Three conditions are established: 
(a) any substance  misuse (see above  definition);  
(c)  illegal possession  of a  controlled  substance, including  cultivation,  
processing, manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession  of  
drug paraphernalia; and  
(f)  any illegal drug  use  while granted  access to  classified  information  or  
holding a sensitive position.  
Appellant smoked marijuana once in 2021, and used Adderall , not prescribed to 
him, once in 2022. He had a security clearance for his job at that time. Therefore, AG ¶ 
25 (a), (c), and (f) are established. 
The guideline at AG ¶ 26 contains four conditions that could mitigate security 
concerns. Two conditions may be applicable: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or happened  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur or does  not cast  doubt  
on  the  individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  judgment;  and  
(b) the  individual acknowledges his or her drug  involvement and  substance  
misuse,  provides evidence  of actions taken  to  overcome  this problem, and  
has established  a pattern of abstinence, including, but not limited  to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts;   
(2) changing  or avoiding  the  environment where drugs were  
used; and   
(3) providing  a  signed  statement of intent to  abstain  from  all  
drug  involvement and substance  misuse,  acknowledging  that  
any future involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation  of  
national security eligibility.  
While the vast majority of Applicant’s drug involvement is in the distant past, he 
did more recently use both marijuana and non-prescribed Adderall after having been 
granted a security clearance. However, it appears that the only way the Government was 
aware of this more recent usage was due to Applicant’s self-reporting. (TR at page 21 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          
        
      
 
 
 
       
  
 
 
 
 
    
    
 
 
line 18 to page 22 line 5, and at page 28 line 24 to page 30 line 4.) He has also signed a 
letter of intent against any future drug involvement. Those who know Applicant also 
support his being truthful. (AppXs H~L.) Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse is found 
for Applicant. 
Guideline E  - Personal Conduct  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Personal Conduct is set out in 
AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving  questionable judgment, lack of candor,  dishonesty,  or  
unwillingness to  comply with  rules and  regulations can  raise  questions  
about an  individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and  ability to  protect  
classified  or sensitive  information.  Of  special interest is any  failure to  
cooperate  or provide  truthful and  candid answers during  national security 
investigative or adjudicative  processes. The following will normally result in  
an  unfavorable national security eligibility determination, security clearance  
action, or cancellation  of further processing for national security eligibility:  
(a) refusal, or failure  without reasonable cause, to  undergo  or  
cooperate  with  security processing, including  but not limited  
to  meeting  with  a  security investigator for  subject  interview,  
completing  security forms or releases, cooperation  with  
medical or psychological evaluation,  or polygraph  
examination, if authorized and required; and  
(b) refusal to  provide full, frank, and truthful answers to lawful  
questions of investigators, security officials, or other official  
representatives in  connection  with  a  personnel security or 
trustworthiness determination.  
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise sec urity concerns under 
AG ¶ 16. One is potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) deliberate  omission, concealment,  or falsification  of relevant facts from  
any personnel  security questionnaire, personal history statement,  or similar  
form  used  to  conduct investigations,  determine  employment qualifications,  
award  benefits or status, determine  national security eligibility or 
trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities.  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
   
 
     
   
 
 
           
          
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
        
   
 
       
 
       
       
 
 
Applicant did not disclose his Adderall usage on his SF-86s. The evidence is 
sufficient to raise these disqualifying conditions. 
AG ¶ 17 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. I considered 
all of the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 17 including: 
(a) the  individual made  prompt,  good-faith  efforts to  correct the  omission,  
concealment,  or falsification  before being confronted with the facts.  
Applicant had forgotten about his misuse of the prescription drug Adderall; but 
before being confronted, he admitted his usage. Had he not come forward as to its usage, 
it is unclear if the Government would have ever known about it. Personal Conduct is found 
for Applicant. 
7 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the  whole-person  concept,  the  administrative judge  must  evaluate  an  
applicant’s national security eligibility by considering  the  totality of the  applicant’s conduct  
and  all  relevant  circumstances.  The  administrative judge  should  consider the  nine  
adjudicative process factors listed  at AG ¶  2(d):  
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  
and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct;  
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.   
According to AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant national 
security eligibility must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the applicable guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guidelines H and E in my whole-person analysis. Some of the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) were 
addressed under those guidelines, but some warrant additional comment. Applicant has 
a distinguished history of working in the defense industry. He performs well at his job. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
     
         
  
 
 
        
    
 
  
 
     
 
  
 
  
 
 
       
         
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
Overall, the record eviden ce leaves me without questions or doubts as to 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance . For all these reasons, I 
conclude Applicant mitigated the Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse, and Personal 
Conduct security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by ¶ E3.1.25 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  H:   FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a~1.d:  For Applicant 
Paragraph  2, Guideline  E:   FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  2.a. and 2.b:  For Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security clearance. 
Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Richard A. Cefola 
Administrative Judge 
8 