 
 
      
 
 
 
 
    
 
     
 
     
 
       
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
  
          
          
 
 
 
   
           
   
  
   
 
    
 
   
 
 
               
            
 
 
 
o •~~~ o 
Ill t 
~ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 24-00561 
Appearances  
For Government: Patricia Lynch-Epps, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
12/29/2025 
Decision 
BENSON, Pamela C., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant mitigated the security concerns arising under Guideline H (drug 
involvement and substance misuse), and Guideline J (criminal conduct). She refuted the 
security concerns under Guideline E (personal conduct). Eligibility for access to classified 
information is granted. 
Statement  of  the  Case  
On July 29, 2023, Applicant completed an Electronic Questionnaires for 
Investigations Processing (eQIP), also known as a security clearance application. On May 
29, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) issued a 
statement of reasons (SOR) to Applicant under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, 
Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960); Department of 
Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance 
Review Program (Directive) (January 2, 1992), as amended; and Security Executive 
Agent Directive 4, establishing in Appendix A, the National Security Adjudicative 
Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to 
Hold a Sensitive Position (AGs), effective June 8, 2017. 
The SOR detailed reasons why the DCSA did not find under the Directive that it is 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant a security clearance for 
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
   
            
   
   
       
  
 
 
 
     
    
 
               
 
                
 
 
 
 
   
                 
               
  
 
    
             
     
 
 
              
   
    
 
 
    
  
Applicant and recommended referral to an administrative judge to determine whether a 
clearance should be granted, continued, denied, or revoked. Specifically, the SOR set 
forth security concerns arising under Guidelines E, H, and J. Applicant responded to the 
SOR (Answer), and she requested a decision be made based on the administrative 
record. 
On March 31, 2025, Department Counsel submitted a file of relevant material 
(FORM), which included Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 5. The FORM was received 
by Applicant on May 5, 2025, and she had 30 days to respond to the FORM, file any 
objections or provide additional information. Applicant elected not to respond to the 
Government’s FORM within the 30-day time limit. I admitted into evidence GE 1 through 
5, without objection. 
Findings  of  Fact  
In Applicant’s Answer, she admitted SOR allegation ¶ 1.a, but denied she 
intentionally falsified her security application, and she denied the remaining SOR 
allegations. (SOR ¶¶ 2.a, 2.b, and 3.a.) Her qualified admission is accepted as findings 
of fact. (GE 2) 
Applicant has been employed by a federal contractor since July 2010. She is a 50-
year-old executive vice president and general manager. She received a bachelor’s 
degree in August 2000. She is married and does not have any children. This is Applicant’s 
first application for a DOD security clearance. (GE 3) 
Personal  Conduct  and  Drug  Involvement  and  Substance  Misuse  
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges Applicant falsified material facts on an Electronic 
Questionnaires for Investigations Processing (eQIP), executed by her on July 29, 2023, 
in response to Section 23 – Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity: Illegal Use of Drugs 
or Controlled Substances In the last seven (7) years, have you illegally used any drugs 
or controlled substances? Use of a drug or controlled substance includes injecting, 
snorting, inhaling, swallowing, experimenting with or otherwise consuming any drug or 
controlled substance? Applicant answered the question with a “No” response, and she 
deliberately failed to disclose that she had used marijuana gummies from about July 2022 
to about July 2023, as set forth in subparagraph 2.a. (SOR allegation – GE 1) 
In Applicant’s Answer, she stated that she responded with a “No” to this eQIP 
question because, at the time, she did not understand that recreational use of marijuana, 
which is legal in her state of residence, was prohibited by federal law. She answered all 
of the eQIP questions in a candid and forthright manner. She did not become aware of 
the full application of federal law until her October 2023 background interview with an 
authorized DOD investigator. Once she became aware of this legal discrepancy, she 
immediately disclosed to the investigator that she had consumed a marijuana gummy at 
a concert sometime between July 2023 (not July 2022) to August 2023. (Answer; GE 2) 
2 
  
 
   
     
             
  
 
  
  
    
 
    
 
              
   
                
   
    
              
 
  
  
 
   
 
 
    
 
 
  
              
 
 
    
 
  
   
 
 
            
 
    
    
             
  
              
SOR ¶ 2.a alleges Applicant used marijuana gummies from about July 2022 to 
August 2023, after completing an eQIP on July 29, 2023, to obtain a security clearance 
[or] while serving in a position of trust with the federal government. Applicant denied this 
allegation because she had consumed a single marijuana gummy on one occasion while 
attending a concert sometime in about mid-2023. (SOR allegation – GE 1, 2) 
During Applicant’s October 2023 background interview, she told the investigator 
that her spouse had purchased marijuana gummies in July 2022, and while they were 
attending a concert in about July or August 2023, she had ingested a gummy. She also 
stated that she and her spouse had used marijuana gummies beginning in early 2023, 
while attending social activities or concerts, until August 2023. This information was 
verified by Applicant in an interrogatory signed by her in April 2024. This reported 
information is concerning for two reasons: 1) the government has no evidence to support 
SOR allegations that Applicant has used and purchased marijuana gummies beginning 
in about July 2022, and 2) in Applicant’s Answer, her statement that she used a marijuana 
gummy on one occasion at a concert in either July or August 2023 contradicts her 
statement of marijuana gummy use during her October 2023 background interview. She 
had also disclosed that she would use THC-infused gummies legally in the future. In any 
event, I conclude that Applicant’s use and possession of marijuana gummies was 
infrequent and limited to early 2023 to August 2023. There is no evidence in the record of 
continued use after August 2023. (GE 2, 4) 
SOR ¶ 2.b alleges Applicant intends to use marijuana in the future. Applicant 
denied this allegation in her Answer because she is now fully aware of the federal law’s 
prohibition of illegal drug use, even if the state has legalized the recreational use of 
marijuana. (SOR allegation – GE 1, 2) 
Criminal  Conduct  
SOR ¶ 3.a cross alleged the information set forth in subparagraph SOR ¶ 2.a 
(Guideline H) as also applicable to Guideline J’s security concerns. (SOR allegation – GE 
1) 
Applicant denied SOR ¶ 3.a in her Answer since she did not fully understand that 
while recreational marijuana is legal in her state of residence, it is still considered illegal 
under federal law. Now that she is aware of this dichotomy, she does not intend to use 
any illegal drugs in the future or engage in any criminal conduct. (GE 2) 
Policies  
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion of the Executive 
Branch in regulating access to information pertaining to national security emphasizing, 
“no one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 
518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual 
is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The President 
has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicant’s eligibility for 
3 
  
    
   
    
 
  
     
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
     
   
  
    
            
   
    
                
      
 
  
 
 
           
    
  
   
   
              
    
  
 
access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly consistent with the 
national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation 
about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Clearance 
decisions must be “in terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a 
determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 § 7. 
Thus, nothing in this decision should be construed to suggest that it is based, in whole or 
in part, on any express or implied determination about applicant’s allegiance, loyalty, or 
patriotism. It is merely an indication the applicant has not met the strict guidelines the 
President, Secretary of Defense, and Director of National Intelligence have established 
for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan, 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 95 -0611 at 2 
(App. Bd. May 2, 1996). 
Once the Government establishes  a disqualifying condition by substantial  
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or  mitigate the  
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15.  An applicant “has the ultimate burden of  demonstrating that it  
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue his [or her] security  
clearance.” ISCR Case No.  01-20700 at 3 (App.  Bd.  Dec. 19,  2002).  The b urden of  
disproving  a  mitigating  condition  never  shifts  to  the  Government.  See  ISCR  Case  No.  02- 
31154 at 5 (App.  Bd.  Sep. 22,  2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  Egan, 484 U.S. at 531;  see  AG  ¶ 2(b).  
4 
  
 
 
 
         
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
   
  
 
   
               
    
  
  
 
 
              
 
 
   
 
 
             
   
   
    
               
  
 
  
  
                
              
Analysis 
Guideline  E,  Pe rsonal  Conduct  
AG ¶ 15 expr
esses the personal conduct security concern: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to 
cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national securi ty 
investigative or adjudicative processes. 
AG ¶ 16 describes the following condition that could raise a security concern and 
may be disqualifying in this case: 
AG ¶ 16(a) deliberate omission, concealment,  or falsification of relevant  
facts  from  any  personnel  security  questionnaire,  personal  history  statement, 
or similar  form used  to conduct investigations, determine employment  
qualifications,  award  benefits  or  status,  determine  national  security  eligibility  
or trustworthiness,  or award fiduciary responsibilities.  
AG ¶ 16(a) is not applicable. Applicant established that she did not deliberately 
conceal or falsify her use of marijuana gummies when she completed the July 2023 eQIP. 
As soon as she discovered the security significance of the difference between state and 
federal laws during her October 2023 background interview, she voluntarily disclosed to 
the investigator her use of a THC-infused gummy she ingested at a concert in mid- 2023 
possibly after her completion of the eQIP, and her use of THC -infused gummies on 
occasion from early 2023 to August 2023. Since she was placed on notice of the legal 
distinction between state and federal law, she has abstained from using any illegal drugs. 
I fo und Applicant successfully refuted the allegation that she intentionally falsified her 
answer to the illegal drug use question on her July 2023 eQIP. No other disqualifying 
conditions under this guideline are established. 
Assuming arguendo that she should have disclosed her consumption of a 
marijuana gummy on her eQIP, personal conduct security concerns are mitigated by AG 
¶ 17(a) “(a) the individual made prompt, good- faith efforts to correct the omission, 
concealment, or falsification before being confronted with the facts.” She disclosed her 
consumption of marijuana gummies during her investigative interview in October 2023, 
and after she became aware of the application of federal law, which is sufficiently prompt 
to apply AG ¶ 17(a). 
The DOHA Appeal Board held that the Government alleged post security 
clearance application (SCA) illegal drug use is only security significant beyond pre- SCA 
use if the Applicant understood the security significance of further marijuana use. ISCR 
Case No. 23-00476 at 5 (App. Bd. May 1, 2024.) Also, “[T]he security significance of [the] 
answer in terms of falsification under Guideline E would be defined by the specific 
5 
  
            
               
  
    
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
               
  
 
  
   
   
   
        
 
           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
  
 
  
 
 
circumstances.” In addition, the DOHA Appeal Board found when conflicts exist within the 
record, a judge must weigh the evidence and resolve such conflicts based upon a careful 
evaluation of factors such as the evidence’s “comparative reliability, plausibility and 
ultimate truthfulness.” ISCR Case No. 05-06723 at 4 (App. Bd. Nov. 14, 2007). In some 
cases, inconsistencies in record evidence can be credited to an applicant’s intentional 
omission or changing reports during a clearance investigation where motive to do so is 
apparent. That is not invariably the case, however, and resolution of the inconsistencies 
must be done in consideration of the reliability of the evidence as a whole. ISCR Case. 
No. 23-00093 at 3. 
Guideline  H,  Drug  Involvement  and  Substance  Abuse  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Drug Involvement is set out in AG 
¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual's reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person's ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. 
AG ¶ 25 describe conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying. The following is potentially applicable in this case: 
AG  ¶  25(a)  any  substance  m
 isuse;  and  
AG ¶ 25 (g) expressed intent to continue drug involvement and substance  
mi
suse,  or failure to clearly and convincingly commit to discontinue such  
misuse.  
Appli
cant admitted that she consumed a marijuana gummy at a concert in mid-
2023, she had used marijuana gummies with her spouse beginning in early 2023 until 
August 2023, and she stated that she intended to legally use marijuana gummies in the 
future, which triggered the disqualifying conditions of AG ¶¶ 25(a) and 25(g). 
The mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 26 which may be applicable in this case are 
as follows: 
AG ¶ 26(a)  the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or  
occ
urred under such circumstances that it is  unlikely to recur and  does not  
cast  doubt on the individual’s current reliability,  trustworthiness, or good  
judgment; and  
6 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
             
               
 
   
   
 
 
    
    
  
   
 
 
 
            
 
   
            
   
 
   
  
 
AG ¶ 26(b)  the individual acknowledges his or her drug involvement and  
subs
tance misuse, provides evidence of actions  taken t o ov ercome this  
problem,  and has established a pat tern of abstinence,  including, but not  
limited to:  
(1)  disassociation  fro m  drug-using  associates  and  contacts;  
(2)  changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were used;  
and  
(3)  providing a signed statement  of  intent to abstain from all drug  
involvement and substance misuse,  acknowledging that any future  
involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation of national security  
eligibility.  
Appli
cant admitted she did not disclose the use of illegal drugs when she 
completed her eQIP in July 2023, since recreational use of marijuana is legal in her state 
of residence, and she did not consider her use of THC-infused gummies as illegal. Once 
she was provided information about the discrepancy and application between state and 
federal laws concerning illegal drug use, she immediately reported her use of marijuana 
gummies from early 2023 to at August 2023 to the investigator during her October 2023 
background interview. She has also stated that she had no intention of using any illegal 
drugs in the future in her Answer. 
Applicant’s use of marijuana was limited, her last use of marijuana occurred over 
two years ago, and I find that future illegal drug use is unlikely to recur. She has clearly 
and convincingly expressed her intent to abstain from marijuana use. Applicant 
demonstrated an appropriate period of abstinence and has met her burden of mitigation 
of the security concerns raised under Guideline H. AG ¶¶ 26(a) and 26(b)(3) apply. 
Guideline  J,  Criminal  Conduct  
AG ¶ 30 sets forth the security concerns pertaining to Criminal Conduct: 
Criminal activity creates doubt about a person's judgment, reliability, and 
trustworthiness. By its very nature, it calls into question a person's ability or 
willingness to comply with laws, rules and regulations. 
AG ¶ 31 describes the following condition that could raise a security concern and 
may be disqualifying in this case: 
(b) evidence (including, but  not limited to,  a credible allegation, an  
admission, and   matters  of  official  record)  of  criminal  conduct,  regardless  of 
whether  the  person  was  formally  charged,  formally  prosecuted  or  convicted.  
7 
  
  
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
                
 
   
 
 
 
         
   
  
 
 
  
           
 
   
    
Applicant used an illegal drug in mid- 2023. Her illegal drug use is prohibited by 
federal law and is criminal conduct. The evidence establishes the above disqualifying 
condition. 
AG ¶ 32 provides two conditions that could mitigate the above security concerns 
raised in this case: 
(a) so much time has  elaps
 ed since the criminal behavior happened, or it  
happened  under  such  unusual  circumstances  that  it  is  unlikely  to  recur  and 
does  not cast doubt on the individual's reliability, trustworthiness,  or good  
judgment; and  
(d)  there  is  evidence  of  su ccessful  rehabilitation;  including  but no t  limited  to  
the passage of time without recurrence of criminal activity, restitution,  
compliance with the terms of parole or probation, job training or higher  
education, good employment record,  or constructive community  
involvement.  
There i
s no evidence of additional misconduct. Applicant’s criminal conduct is 
related to her illegal drug possession in a state where the recreational possession and 
use of marijuana is legal. Once she understood the application of federal law, she has 
stopped all illegal drug use and has not used any illegal drug since August 2023. She has 
demonstrated successful rehabilitation, and I believe future drug- related misconduct is 
unlikely to recur. AG ¶¶ 32(a) and 32(d) apply. 
Whole-Person  Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the Applicant’s 
conduct and all the circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness  of the conduct; (2) the circumstances  
surrounding the conduct,  to include knowledgeable participation;  (3) the  
frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the individual’s age and maturity  
at the time of the conduct; (5)  the extent to which  participation  is  voluntary;  
(6)  the  presence  or  absence  of  rehabilitation and  other  permanent  behavioral  
changes;  (7)  the  motivation  for  the  conduct;  
(8) the potential  for  pressure, coercion,  exploitation,  or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), “[t]he ultimate determination” of whether to grant a security 
clearance “must be an overall common-sense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines” and the whole-person concept. My comments under Guidelines E, H, 
and J are incorporated in my whole- person analysis. Some of the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) 
were addressed under those guidelines but some warrant additional comment. 
8 
  
           
 
   
     
 
 
           
 
 
 
             
   
 
 
 
 
                
    
             
 
 
 
  
After considering the record as a whole, to include the circumstances surrounding 
Applicant’s limited use of marijuana, the timing of when she learned that federal law 
supersedes state law, and her immediate disclosure of her marijuana involvement 
thereafter, I conclude that Applicant has met her heavy burden of proof and persuasion. 
Overall, her conduct and abstention from marijuana upon learning of its security 
significance shows her reliability, trustworthiness, and good judgment. For all these 
reasons, I conclude Applicant mitigated the security concerns arising under Guidelines H 
and J, and she successfully refuted the security concerns under Guideline E. 
Formal  Findings  
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline E:  FO
 R  APPLICANT  (Refuted)  
Subparagraph 1.a:  For Applicant (Refuted)  
Paragraph 2, Guideline H:  FOR  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  2.a and 2.b:  For Applicant  
Paragraph 3, Guideline J:  FOR  APPLICANT  
Subparagraph 3.a:  For Applicant  
Conclusion  
In ligh
t of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, I conclude 
that it is clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant Applicant’s 
eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Pamela C. Benson 
Administrative Judge 
9 