 
 
 
         
  
 
 
    
  
                                                                 
  
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
     
      
    
  
 
  
   
   
    
 
     
   
 
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPAR
TMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-02172 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Sakeena Farhath, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
07/14/2025 
Decision 
CEFOLA, Richard A., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not mitigate the financial considerations security concerns . 
Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
On December 27, 2024, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement 
of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline F (financial 
considerations). Applicant responded to the SOR on January 30, 2025, and requested a 
decision based on the written record in lieu of a hearing. 
The Government’s written case was submitted on February 27, 2025. A complete 
copy of the file of relevant material (FORM) was provided to Applicant, who was 
afforded an opportunity to file objections and submit material to refute, extenuate, or 
mitigate the security concerns. Applicant received the FORM on March 19, 2025. 
Applicant elected not to respond to the Government’s FORM. The period for his 
response lapsed on May 3, 2025. The case was assigned to me on July 1, 2025. The 
Government exhibits included in the FORM are admitted in evidence without objection. 
 
 
 
 
   
    
      
 
  
 
  
 
      
   
    
  
 
  
    
  
    
      
  
 
  
 
   
      
    
  
 
 
   
  
 
      
   
 
 
   
   
  
  
    
  
 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 48- year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been 
employed by his current company since 20 22. He has a GED, which he obtained in 
1995. Applicant is single and has no children. This is Applicant’s first time applying for a 
security clearance and he is begrudgingly doing so. In his interrogatory response 
Applicant stated, “I would actually prefer to not have a clearance, the only reason I need 
it is to help facilitate discussions regarding the Navy’s communication equipment.”(Items 
3 and 4) 
The SOR alleges that Applicant failed to timely file, as required, Federal income 
tax returns for at least tax years 2014- 2019, 2022 and 2023. The allegations are 
established through Applicant’s admissions and his interrogatory response. To date , 
Applicant has still not filed these income tax returns. (Items 4 and 5) 
In his 2024 background interview with a government investigator , Applicant 
stated, “I have no debt to my knowledge, but I do often forget to file.” He further told the 
investigator that he was forgetful when it comes to filing his tax returns. He went on to 
state that he is not in the habit of filing and has not done so in the last 10 years. When 
responding to the interrogatories that were sent to him Applicant further stated, “my 
taxes are paid (withheld by my employer) I just always forget to file them.” (Items 4 and 
5) 
Policies  
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines (AG ), which became 
effective on June 8, 2017. 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According 
to AG ¶ 2(c), the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables 
known as the “whole -person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all 
available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
   
     
 
      
     
  
    
     
 
    
  
    
    
   
      
   
   
 
 
   
  
     
  
  
 
 
       
 
  
   
 
  
   
   
   
  
  
   
 
 
 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, 
or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel .” The 
applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation of potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline F, Financial Considerations  
The security concern for financial considerations is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one ’s means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual ’s reliability, trustworthiness , and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
This concern is broader than the possibility that an individual might knowingly 
compromise classified information in order to raise money. It encompasses concerns 
3 
 
 
 
    
 
   
   
 
    
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
   
   
 
  
 
  
       
 
 
   
     
 
    
    
 
 
     
    
     
   
 
 
 
 
about an individual’s self-control, judgment, and other qualities essential to protecting 
classified information. An individual who is financially irresponsible may also be 
irresponsible, unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding classified 
information. ISCR Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012). 
The Appeal Board held in ISCR Case No. 14 -04437 at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 15, 
2016): 
Failure to file tax returns suggests that an applicant has a problem 
complying with well- established governmental rules and systems. 
Voluntary compliance with such rules and systems is essential for 
protecting classified information. ISCR Case No. 01- 05340 at 3 (App. Bd. 
Dec. 20, 2002). As we have noted in the past, a clearance adjudication is 
not directed at collecting debts. See, e.g., ISCR Case No, 07 -08049 at 5 
(App. Bd. Jul. 22, 2008). By the same token, neither is it directed towards 
inducing an applicant to file tax returns. Rather, it is a proceeding aimed at 
evaluating an applicant’s judgment and reliability. Id. A person who fails 
repeatedly to fulfill his or her legal obligations does not demonstrate the 
high degree of good judgment and reliability required of those granted 
access to classified information. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. The following is potentially applicable in this case: 
(f) failure to file or fraudulently filing annual Federal, state, or local income 
tax returns  or failure to pay annual Federal, state,  or local income tax as  
required.  
Applicant failed to timely file federal income tax returns, as required, for multiple 
tax years and has still not filed them. AG ¶ 19(f) is applicable. 
Conditions that could mitigate the financial considerations security concerns are 
provided under AG ¶ 20. The following is potentially applicable: 
(g) the individual  has made arrangements with the appropriate tax  
authority to file or pay the amount  owed and is in compliance with those  
arrangements.  
Applicant has multiple years of unfiled f ederal income tax returns . He has 
known about his tax issues for several years, and he has not made any documented 
effort to resolve them. AG ¶ 20(g) does not apply. Security concerns raised by 
Applicant’s unfiled tax returns are not mitigated. 
4 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
   
 
 
    
  
   
     
 
    
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
 
    
  
 
 
       
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
___________________ 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent  to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of  
rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation  
for the conduct; (8) the potential for  pressure, coercion, exploitation,  or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. I have incorporated my 
comments under Guideline F in my whole-person analysis. 
Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts about 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. I conclude Applicant did not 
mitigate the financial considerations security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:   Against Applicant 
Subparagraph 1.a:  
  Agai
nst Applicant 
Conclusion  
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for 
a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
R. A. Cefola 
Administrative Judge 
5 