 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
    
  
      
  
   
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
       
     
        
  
 
  
     
     
  
  
  
   
 
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPA
RTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-02245 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Department Counsel, Andre M. Gregorian Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
09/25/2025 
Decision 
CEFOLA, Richard A., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not mitigate the financial considerations security concerns. 
Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
On January 9, 2025, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline F (financial 
considerations). Applicant responded to the SOR on April 9, 2025, and requested a 
decision based on the written record in lieu of a hearing. 
The Government’s written case was submitted on May 1, 2025. A complete copy 
of the file of relevant material (FORM) was provided to Applicant, who was afforded an 
opportunity to file objections and submit material to refute, extenuate, or mitigate the 
security concerns. Applicant received the FORM on May 19, 2025. Applicant elected not 
to respond to the Government’s FORM. The period for h er response lapsed on June 19 
2025. The case was assigned to me on September 12,  2025. The Government exhibits 
included in the FORM are admitted in evidence without objection. 
 
 
 
 
    
  
    
    
 
         
  
   
  
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
         
   
 
   
       
   
  
 
 
    
 
  
 
   
      
    
  
 
 
   
  
 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 52- year-old employee of a health-care company. She has worked 
with them since March 2024. This is her first time applying for a security clearance. She 
is a high school graduate who earned an associate degree from a community college in 
2016. Applicant is married and has two adult children. (Item 3) 
The SOR alleges 13 delinquent automobile and consumer accounts, all totaling 
$39,726. Applicant’s three largest delinquencies relate to repossessed vehicles , which 
have been charged- off. The other debts are collections and others that are past due. 
The debts are established through Applicant’s admissions , her interrogatory response 
and various credit reports. (Items 2-7) 
Applicant first mentioned the cause of her financial problems and delinquent 
debts in her security clearance application. She went into further detail in her Answer 
and when she when she replied to the interrogatory the Government sent her . Outside 
of the limited discussion on them , Applicant admitted to all the other allegations with no 
explanation. 
Applicant cosigned on a vehicle for her son when he moved to Michigan for 
employment working on a railroad. When COVID came he was furloughed from his job 
and was unable to unable to find employment that was paying him the same amount of 
money. He was unable to make his car payments, and Applicant could not afford to do 
so and support her family. (SOR 1.a.) Applicant also had to surrender her car that she 
had financed through Ally Financial. The car was having numerous mechanical 
problems, and she could not afford to keep fixing it and make her monthly payment. 
Paying both was becoming a strain on her finances and her family , since she had the 
expense of raising two grandchildren at the time. (SOR 1. d.) The Applicant also had to 
surrender a car to Carmax , since her son could not afford to make payments on it and 
either could she. (Items 2, 4) 
Prior to WS Badcock Credit going bankrupt Applicant never missed a payment and 
was current on her obligation. (Item 2) 
Policies  
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines (AG ), which became 
effective on June 8, 2017. 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
    
  
 
 
 
   
     
 
      
     
  
    
     
 
    
  
    
    
   
      
   
   
 
 
   
  
     
  
  
 
 
       
 
  
   
disqualifying  conditions and mitigating  conditions,  which are to be used  in evaluating  an  
applicant’s eligibility for access to  classified  information.  
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According 
to AG ¶ 2(c), the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables 
known as the “whole -person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all 
available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, 
or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel .” The 
applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation of potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline F, Financial Considerations  
The security concern for financial considerations is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one ’s means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
3 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
  
  
   
 
  
    
 
 
 
     
     
  
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
   
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual ’s reliability, trustworthiness , and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) inability to satisfy  debt
 s;  and  
(c) a history of not  mee ting financial obligations.  
Appli
cant has a history of financial problems, including multiple delinquent debts , 
which include charge-offs, accounts in collections and past due. AG ¶¶ 19(a) and 19(c) 
are applicable. 
Conditions that could mitigate the financial considerations security concerns are 
provided under AG ¶ 20. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
under
 such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast  
doubt  on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good  
judgment;   
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely  
beyo
nd the  person’s  control  (e.g.,  loss of employment, a business  
downturn, unexpected medical  emergency,  a death, divorce or  separation,  
clear victimization by predatory lending practices,  or identity theft), and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
(c) the individual  has r eceived or is receiving financial counseling for the  
problem  from a  legitimate and credible source, such as a non- profit credit  
counseling service,  and there are clear indications  that the problem is  
being resolved or is under control;  and  
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to  a go od-faith effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.  
Outside of Applicant discussing the three cars she had to surrender , t hat her 
finances were affected by job loss and having to raise her grandchildren; her Answer as 
well as her interrogatory response is devoid of any evidence of why she failed to meet 
4 
 
 
 
 
   
    
     
   
   
  
 
 
  
 
    
   
 
 
   
  
   
  
  
    
 
    
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
her financial obligations , and what actions  she plans to take to resolve her financial  
difficulties.   
There is insufficient evidence for a determination that Applicant’s financial 
problems will be resolved within a reasonable period. I am unable to find that she acted 
responsibly under the circumstances or that she made a good -faith effort to pay h er 
debts. Her financial issues are recent and ongoing. They continue to cast doubt on her 
current reliability, trustworthiness, and good judgment. I find that financial 
considerations security concerns remain despite the presence of some mitigation. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent  to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of  
rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation  
for the conduct; (8) the potential for  pressure, coercion, exploitation,  or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. I considered the 
potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and 
circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guideline F in my whole-person analysis. 
Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts about 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. I conclude Applicant did not 
mitigate the financial considerations security concerns. 
5 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
  
     
 
   
 
 
 
 
       
      
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
____________________ 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:  
  Against Applicant  
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.b:  Against  Applicant   
Subparagraph 1.c:  For Applicant  
Subparagraph 1.d.-1.m:   Against Applicant  
Conclusion  
It is
 not clearly consistent with the national interest to continue Applicant’s 
eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Richard A. Cefola 
Administrative Judge 
6 