                                                              
 
                                                                                                                    
          
           
             
 
 
 
 
   
  
       
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
     
    
 
 
  
 
        
        
       
     
    
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00538 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: 
Tara Karoian, Esquire, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: 
Pro se 
03/25/2025 
Decision 
ROSS, Wilford H., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant mitigated the security concerns under Guidelines E (Personal Conduct) 
and F (Financial Considerations). Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Statement of the Case 
On July 9, 2024 , the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guidelines E and F. The 
action was taken under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information 
within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 5220.6, Defense 
Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
 
          
        
          
           
           
       
            
          
        
            
  
 
 
 
 
      
       
       
      
   
 
 
     
     
       
 
 
   
      
            
          
        
       
       
     
 
 
(Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) implemented by the DOD on June 8, 
2017. 
Applicant responded to the SOR in writing (Answer) on August 26 , 2024, and 
requested a hearing before an administrative judge. Department Counsel was prepared 
to proceed on October 31, 2024. The case was assigned to me on November 13, 2024. 
The Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a Notice of Hearing on 
November 21, 2024. I convened the hearing as scheduled on December 17, 2024. The 
Government offered Government Exhibits 1 through 7, which were admitted without 
objection. Applicant testified on his own behalf. He requested that the record remain open 
for the receipt of additional documentation. He submitted Applicant Exhibits 1 through 7 
in a timely fashion, and they were admitted without objection. DOHA received the 
transcript of the hearing (Tr.) on January 13, 2025 . The record closed on January 17, 
2025. 
Findings of Fact 
Applicant is 47 years old, married, and has two children. He has a master’s degree 
in engineering management. He is employed by a defense contractor as a senior principal 
program quality engineer. He began working for his current employer in June 2023. This 
is his first application for national security eligibility. (Government Exhibit 1 at Sections 
12, 13A, and 17; Tr. 19-20.) 
Paragraph 1 (Guideline E, Personal Conduct)  
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance 
because he has engaged in conduct that shows poor judgment, untrustworthiness, or 
unreliability. Applicant admitted the single allegation under this guideline with 
explanations. 
Applicant worked for another company (Company A) from 2007 through 2021. He 
was terminated from his employment with Company A for incorrect reporting of time 
records. According to Applicant, these incidents took place during a time when he had 
major health issues. He overslept in his car while on a break from work. He stated that 
the incorrect reporting of his break time was an innocent mistake on his part and not an 
attempt to obtain money that he had not earned. He has been extremely open in 
describing this incident and expresses a credible intent not to engage in any conduct like 
that in the future. (Answer; Government Exhibit 1 at Section 13A, Government Exhibit 2 
at 7; Tr. 32-39.) 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
     
       
        
        
     
  
 
      
            
  
  
          
              
 
 
            
        
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paragraph 2  (Guideline F, Financial Considerations)  
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance 
because he is financially overextended and therefore potentially unreliable, 
untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds. Applicant 
admitted the four allegations under this guideline with explanations . The Government 
provided credit reports of Applicant dated August 16, 2023; February 12, 2024; May 21, 
2024; July 1, 2024; and October 30 , 2024, supporting the existence of the debts. 
(Government Exhibits 7, 6, 4, 5, and 3.) 
Applicant maintains that his delinquent indebtedness was due to three situations. 
First, both he and his daughter had health issues in the 2000 and 2001 time period that 
required medical care that was not covered by insurance. Second, the COVID pandemic 
had an impact on his work in terms of an income reduction. Third, as the financial issues 
grew, he attempted to resolve them with the creditors before he became delinquent. 
According to him, the creditors refused to deal with him because he was not yet 
delinquent. (Tr. 26-32, 44-48.) 
Applicant and his wife both obtained new employment in the 2023 time frame. Both 
of their new jobs came with substantial raises in income. Once that occurred, he began 
working to resolve his past-due indebtedness. (Tr. 23-26, 48-49.) 
The current status of the debts in the SOR is as follows: 
1.a. Applicant admitted  owing  a  credit union  approximately $3,333.  He resolved  
this debt  in  April 2024, as shown by documentation  from  the  collector for the  credit  union.  
This debt  was paid  before the  issuance  of the  SOR in this case. This debt is resolved.  
(Applicant Exhibit 1  at 1; Tr. 51-53.)  
1.b.  Applicant  admitted  that  he  owed  a  delinquent  debt for a  credit card  in the  
amount  of approximately $2,472. He made  a  payment  agreement  with  the  collector for  
the  credit  card  and  fulfilled  the  agreement  in October  2024, as  confirmed  by  
correspondence from  the creditor. This debt is resolved. (Applicant  Exhibit 1 at 2; Tr. 53-
54.)   
1.c.  Applicant admitted  owing  a  bank $4,367  for a  past-due  debt. He has 
repeatedly  contacted  the  bank, but  they have  sold the  account  and  are  unwilling  or  unable  
to  provide  him  with  contact information  for the  entity they sold the  debt to. The  credit  
reports in the  record do  not provide  any further information  about this debt.  This debt is  
not resolved, but I find  Applicant has made  a  good-faith  attempt to resolve it. (Tr.  50, 56-
57.)  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
          
      
  
 
         
         
 
 
        
        
 
 
 
 
      
          
   
        
   
 
           
      
         
       
   
       
            
 
      
     
         
1.d.  Applicant  admitted  that  he  owed  a  delinquent  debt for a  credit card  in the  
amount  of approximately $2,739.  He made  a  payment  agreement  with  the  collector for  
the  credit card and  fulfilled  the  agreement in August  2024, as confirmed  by  
correspondence from  the creditor. This debt is resolved. (Applicant  Exhibit 1 at  3; Tr. 54-
55.)  
Mitigation  
Applicant is a very successful and respected employee. The record shows that he 
has made an impact during his brief span on the job. His supervisor wrote an extremely 
laudatory letter. He has also received other recognition from his employer. (Applicant 
Exhibits 2, 3, 4, and 5; Tr. 36-38.) 
Applicant also paid off a past -due automobile debt, as shown in Government 
Exhibit 3 at page 4. This payment occurred in June 2024, before issuance of the SOR. 
(Tr. 58.) 
Applicant is financially stable. His wife supplied a letter discussing their financial 
situation. She also provided a budget showing that they are easily able to keep up with 
their current debts. (Applicant Exhibit 6; Tr. 58-63.) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s national security eligibility for a security clearance, 
the administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines (AG) list 
potentially disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in 
evaluating an applicant’s national security eligibility. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. The entire 
process is a conscientious scrutiny of applicable guidelines in the context of a number of 
variables known as the whole -person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires, “Any doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
  
 
    
      
    
      
    
  
   
 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. I have not drawn inferences based on mere speculation or 
conjecture. 
Directive ¶  E3.1.14, requires the  Government to  present evidence  to  establish  
controverted  facts  alleged  in the  SOR. Under Directive ¶  E3.1.15, “The  applicant is   
responsible  for presenting  witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or  
mitigate  facts admitted  by the  applicant or proven  by Department Counsel, and  has the  
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining  a favorable clearance  decision.”  
A  person  who  seeks  access to  classified  information  enters into  a  fiduciary  
relationship  with  the  Government predicated  upon  trust and  confidence. This relationship  
transcends normal duty hours and  endures throughout off-duty  hours. The  Government  
reposes a  high  degree  of trust and  confidence  in individuals to  whom  it grants national  
security eligibility.  Decisions include, by necessity, consideration  of the  possible  risk the  
applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail  to  protect or safeguard classified 
information. Such  decisions entail  a  certain degree  of legally permissible  extrapolation  as  
to  potential, rather than  actual, risk of  compromise of classified  or sensitive information.  
Finally, as emphasized  in Section  7  of Executive  Order 10865, “Any determination  under  
this order adverse to  an  applicant  shall  be  a  determination  in  terms of the  national interest  
and  shall  in no  sense  be  a  determination  as to  the  loyalty of  the  applicant  concerned.”  
See also Executive  Order 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing  multiple prerequisites  for access  
to classified or sensitive information.)  
Analysis  
Paragraph 2 (Guideline E, Personal Conduct)  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Personal Conduct is set out in 
AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. O f special interest is any failure to 
cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 16. One is potentially applicable in this case: 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
    
 
 
 
 
 
      
        
      
   
(d) credible  adverse information  that is not  explicitly covered  under any  
other guideline  and  may  not  be  sufficient by itself for an  adverse  
determination, but which, when  combined  with  all  available  information,  
supports a  whole-person  assessment of questionable judgment,  
untrustworthiness, unreliability, lack of candor, unwillingness to  comply with  
rules and  regulations, or other characteristics  indicating  that the  individual  
may not  properly safeguard classified  or sensitive  information. This  
includes, but is not limited to, consideration of:  
(1) untrustworthy or unreliable behavior to  include  breach  of client 
confidentiality,  release  or proprietary information, unauthorized  
release  of sensitive corporate or government protected information;  
(2) any disruptive, violent,  or other inappropriate  behavior;  
(3) a pattern of dishonesty or rule violations; and  
(4) evidence  of significant misuse  of Government or other employer’s  
time  or resources.  
Applicant was terminated from employment in 2021 due to his issues with correctly 
entering his time on his timecard. AG ¶ 16(a) is applicable. 
The  following  mitigating  conditions under AG ¶  17  are  possibly  applicable  to  
Applicant’s conduct:  
(c)  the  offense  is so  minor, or so  much  time  has passed, or the  behavior is 
so  infrequent, or it happened  under such  unique  circumstances that it is 
unlikely to  recur and  does  not  cast  doubt on  the  individual's reliability,  
trustworthiness, or good judgment; and  
(d) the  individual has acknowledged  the  behavior and  obtained  counseling  
to  change  the  behavior or taken  other positive steps to  alleviate  the  
stressors, circumstances, or  factors that  contributed  to  untrustworthy, 
unreliable, or other inappropriate behavior, and such  behavior is unlikely to  
recur.  
As stated under Paragraph 1, above, Applicant has expressed remorse for this 
single incident that had a devastating impact on his life. There is compelling evidence that 
it shall not be repeated. He has mitigated the single allegation under this guideline. 
Paragraph 1 is found for Applicant. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
      
 
 
         
 
 
 
 
             
           
  
 
 
 
  
 
Paragraph 1  (Guideline F, Financial Considerations)  
The security concerns relating to the guideline for financial considerations are set 
out in AG ¶ 18, which reads in pertinent part:  
Failure to   live  within  one’s means, satisfy debts,  and  meet  financial  
obligations may indicate  poor self-control, lack of judgment,  or  
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise  
questions about an  individual’s reliability, trus tworthiness, and  ability to  
protect  classified  or  sensitive information.  Financial distress can  also be  
caused  or  exacerbated  by, and  thus can  be  a  possible  indicator of,  other  
issues of  personnel security concern  such  as  excessive gambling, mental  
health  conditions, substance  misuse, or alcohol abuse  or dependence. An  
individual who  is financially overextended  is at greater risk of having  to  
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to  generate funds.  
AG ¶ 19 describes two conditions that could raise security concerns and may be 
disqualifying in this case: 
(a) inability to satisfy debts;  and  
(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations.  
Applicant was alleged to have four delinquent debts. AG ¶ ¶ 19(a) and (c) apply. 
The burden thereby shifts to Applicant to mitigate the adverse inference of his delinquent 
debts. 
The  guideline includes three  conditions in AG  ¶ 20  that could mitigate the security  
concerns arising from  Applicant’s alleged financial difficulties:  
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or occurred  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur and  does not  cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;   
(b) the  conditions  that resulted  in the  financial problem  were  largely  beyond  
the  person’s control (e.g.,  loss of employment,  a  business downturn,   
unexpected  medical emergency, or a  death,  divorce  or separation, clear  
victimization  by predatory lending  practices, or identity  theft), and  the  
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;  and  
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
        
        
          
         
              
    
 
 
 
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d) the  individual initiated  and  is adhering  to  a  good-faith  effort to  repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.  
With regard to allegations 2.a, 2.b, and 2.d, Applicant submitted documentation 
showing that he had paid off those debts. There is compelling evidence that most of h is 
financial difficulties were in relation to family health issues and the impact of the COVID 
pandemic. Upon he and his wife getting new jobs with substantial raises he began to 
resolve the debts. Turning to the debt in allegation 2.c, I find Applicant has made a good-
faith effort to resolve that debt. He realizes that he must continue to work diligently to 
resolve that particular debt. AG ¶¶ 20(a), (b), and (d) apply. 
In  support of these  findings, I cite  the  Appeal Board’s decision  in ISCR  Case  No.  
07-06482  at 3  (App. Bd. May 21, 2008) for the  proposition  that  the  adjudicative guidelines  
do  not require  that  an  applicant be  debt-free.  The  Board’s guidance  for adjudications in  
cases such as this is the following:  
[A]n  applicant is not required, as a  matter of law, to  establish  that he  
has paid  off each  and  every debt  listed  in  the  SOR.  All  that is required  is  
that  an  applicant demonstrate  that he  has  established  a  plan  to  resolve his  
financial problems and  taken  significant actions to  implement that plan. The  
Judge  can  reasonably consider the   entirety of   an  applicant’s financial   
situation  and  his actions in evaluating   the  extent  to  which that  applicant’s  
plan  for the  reduction  of his outstanding  indebtedness is credible  and  
realistic. There is no  requirement that a  plan  provide  for payments on  all  
outstanding  debts simultaneously. Rather, a  reasonable  plan  (and  
concomitant conduct) may provide  for the  payments of such  debts one  at a  
time. (Internal citations and quotation  marks omitted.)  
Based on all of the available evidence, Applicant has mitigated the security 
concerns of this guideline. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the  whole-person  concept,  the  administrative judge  must  evaluate  an  
applicant’s eligibility for national security eligibility by considering  the  totality of the   
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
          
     
 
       
    
     
        
          
        
              
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
    
applicant’s conduct and  all  relevant circumstances. The  administrative  judge  should  
consider the  nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d):   
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  
and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct;  
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant national security 
eligibility for a security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon 
careful consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
pertinent facts and circumstances surrounding this case. Applicant has fully mitigated the 
security concerns of his personal conduct and financial conduct. As stated elsewhere in 
this decision, and supported by the evidence, Applicant is a talented and successful 
person who works hard at his job. The incident under Guideline E will not be repeated. 
He has resolved, or is resolving, h is financial situation. Such financial difficulties will not 
occur in the future. His conduct has earned h im the privilege of being granted national 
security eligibility. Paragraphs 1 and 2 are found for Applicant. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by ¶ E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
     
 
     
 
     
  
 
 
                                                  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  E:   FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  1.a:   For Applicant 
Paragraph  2, Guideline  F:   FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  2.a  through 2.d:  For Applicant 
Conclusion  
In  light of all  of the  circumstances presented  by the  record in this case, it is clearly 
consistent with  the national interest to  grant or continue  Applicant’s national security 
eligibility for a  security clearance. Eligibility for  access to  classified  information  is granted.  
WILFORD H. ROSS 
Administrative Judge 
10 