 
 
 
 
 
              
                  DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
      DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS     
           
             
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
  
    
       
  
   
     
   
  
  
______________ 
______________ 
In  the matter  of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR Case No.  24-00747  
  )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance  )  
 
Appearances  
For Government: Alison O’Connell, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
07/31/2025 
Decision  
FOREMAN, LeRoy F., Administrative Judge: 
This case involves security concerns raised under Guidelines F (Financial 
Considerations) and E (Personal Conduct). Clearance is granted. 
Statement  of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on September 13, 
2021. On July 26, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) 
sent him a Statement of Reasons (SOR) alleging security concerns under Guidelines F 
and E . The DCSA acted under Executive Order ( Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of 
Defense ( DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance 
Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative 
guidelines (AG) promulgated in Security Executive Agent Directive 4, National Security 
Adjudicative Guidelines (December 10, 2016), which became effective on June 8, 2017. 
1 
 
 
 
   
  
   
    
 
  
     
    
 
    
  
  
    
 
 
 
   
  
    
  
      
 
    
     
    
 
 
      
   
   
  
      
 
 
      
   
     
 
   
 
Applicant answered the SOR on November 20, 2024, denied all the allegations, 
and requested a hearing before an administrative judge. Department Counsel was ready 
to proceed on January 22, 2025, and the case was assigned to me on May 7, 2025. On 
May 12, 2025, the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) notified Applicant 
that the hearing was scheduled to be conducted by video teleconference on June 3, 2025. 
I convened the hearing as scheduled. Government Exhibits (GX) 1 through 14 were 
admitted in evidence over Applicant’s objection on the ground that the credit reports 
offered by the Department Counsel were invalid and inaccurate. 
Applicant testified but did not present the testimony of any other witnesses or 
submit any documentary evidence. I kept the record open until June 13, 2025, to enable 
him to submit documentary evidence. He timely submitted Applicant’s Exhibits (AX ) 1 
through 5, which were admitted without objection. DOHA received the transcript on June 
13, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 37- year-old aviation structural mechanic employed by a defense 
contractor since about June 2023. He served on active duty in the U.S. Navy from April 
2018 to June 2023 and received an honorable discharge. After his discharge from the 
Navy, he continued to perform the same duties as a civilian employee of a defense 
contractor. He has held a security clearance since April 2018. He received a certificate of 
appreciation for service aboard a Navy ship during a combat operation in June 2020 (AX 
4). He was awarded the Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal twice, in September 
2020 (AX 2) and November 2021 (AX 3) . He married in August 2017 and separated in 
2022. He has an eight-year-old son and shares joint custody with his spouse. 
Before Applicant enlisted in the Navy, he owned and operated a towing company 
from about 2011 to 2017. He registered his business as a sole proprietorship. He 
sometimes worked from home and sometimes from a separate location. He obtained 
garage space from his grandfather and did not pay rent but shared his business profits . 
He also worked part time for another towing company. He did not formally close his 
business, but simply “walked away from it. ” (Tr. 42-45) He did not retain any of his 
business records. 
At the hearing, Applicant asserted that “[c]redit bureaus are private, for -profit 
companies, not official Government sources of Government verified information and are 
known to contain errors, particularly regarding old or unverified business -related 
accounts.” (Tr. 25) However, it is well settled that adverse information from a credit report 
will normally meet the requirement in Directive ¶ E3.1.14 that an allegation be supported 
by substantial evidence. ISCR Case No. 08-12184 at 7 (App. Bd. Jan. 7, 2010.) 
Applicant  testified that he believes all  the debts  alleged i n t he SOR were incurred  
as business debts.  In his answer to the SOR,  he denied the debts  alleged in SOR  ¶¶  1.a-
1.f on the grounds  that  they were business debts incurred before he enlisted in the Navy,  
that collection of the debts was barred by the statute of limitations, and that the debts  
were unverifiable because they were no longer reflected on his  credit reports.  At the 
hearing, he testified that  he b elieved  that his business  debts were separate from his  
2 
 
 
 
        
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
personal debts. He did not know that a sole proprietor is legally liable for business debts. 
(Tr. 55) 
The evidence concerning the debts alleged in the SOR is summarized below: 
SOR ¶ 1.a:  
 Debt  for banking services, placed for  collection o f $13, 173.  When  
Applicant was interviewed by a security investigator in D  ecember 2021, he told  the 
investigator that  he was disputing the amount  of  the debt.  (GX  8 at 8)  The  November  
2021 credit report reflects that  the dispute was resolved,  and the case was closed. (GX  
12 at 3)  The evidence indicates that this debt  has been resolved.   
SOR ¶ 1.b:  Department store credit card,  pl aced f or  collection of $5,766.  At the  
hearing, Applicant  testified that this credit card debt was a business  debt, incurred to buy  
fuel  and tools  for  a tow  truck that he used to operate his business. (Tr. 30)  The November  
2021 credit report reflects that this debt was disputed f ollowing resolution  and placed for  
collection. (GX 12 at 3)  During the December 2021 security interview, Applicant asserted  
that  he had paid this debt, but he did not  provide any documentation to support his  
assertion. (GX  8 at 8)  Applicants who c laim that a debt has  been resolved  are  expected  
to present  documentary evidence s upporting that claim.  See ISCR Case No.  15-03363 at  
2 (App. Bd. Oct. 19, 2016).  
SOR ¶ 1.c:  Bank debt placed f or  c ollection of  $1,971.  During the  December 2021 
security interview, Applicant  was unable to provide information about this  debt. (GX 8 at  
8)  The November 2021 credit report reflects that the debt is  disputed.  (GX  12 at 4)  
However, the record does not reflect  the basis for the dispute or  any resolution of the 
dispute.   
SOR ¶ 1.d:  Credit card used for Applicant’s business, referred for collection of  
$684. During the December 2021 security interview, Applicant  stated that this was a credit  
card used for  his business  and that it has  never been late. (GX 8  at 7)  The November  
2021 credit report reflects  that  this debt is disputed, but there is no evidence of  the basis  
for the dispute  or its resolution. (GX  12 at 4)  
SOR  ¶ 1. e:  C redit card account referred for collection of  $559. During the  
December  2021 security interview,  Applicant told the investigator that  he used this credit  
card regularly and  has never  been l ate on his payments.  (GX  8 at  7)  The November 2021  
credit report reflects that this  debt is disputed, but the record does  not reflect the basis for  
the dispute or its resolution. (GX 12 at 4)   
SOR  ¶  1.f: Utility  b ill for  $504.  During the  December 2021 security interview,  
Applicant told the investigator that  this  bill was for  electricity for his residence, and that  
when he moved out  of the residence,  he told the utility company to t urn off the power, but  
the company failed to turn off the power and  continued to charge him for the service.  He 
told the investigator  that  he was disputing this debt . The  credit reports in the record do  
not reflect  that  this debt is disputed.  
SOR ¶ 1.g:  Credit card ac c ount charged off for about $2,099. In Applicant’s answer  
to the SOR, he stated that  he paid this  debt  so that it would be removed from his credit  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
    
  
 
   
  
     
    
  
  
 
     
       
    
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
      
   
  
     
    
  
      
 
 
   
   
    
   
      
    
 
     
  
  
   
   
record and enable him to obtain a home mortgage loan. He provided evidence that the  
debt was paid in full.  (Enclosure t o Answer)  It is resolved.  
None of the debts alleged in the SOR are reflected in the December 2023 credit 
report. (GX 10) or subsequent credit reports (GX 9 and 14). Under the Fair Credit 
Reporting Act, 15 U.S.C. § 1681c, a credit report may not list accounts placed for 
collection, charged off debts, or civil judgments that antedate the credit report by more 
than seven years, or until the statute of limitations has run, whichever is longer. 
When Applicant submitted his SCA in September 2021, he answered “No’ to the 
questions asking if, in the last seven years, he had any bills or debts turned over to a 
collection agency and asking if, in the last seven years, he had an account or credit card 
suspended, charged off, or cancelled for failing to pay as agreed. At the hearing, he 
testified that he answered “No” to the financial questions because he did not believe he 
had any personal financial liabilities. (Tr. 50) 
Applicant’s net monthly income is $8,974. His monthly expenses are about $2,740. 
His monthly payments on his home mortgage loan are $2,290, leaving a net monthly 
remainder of about $3,944. (GX 7 at 10) 
Applicant’s most recent credit report, dated May 19, 2025, reflects that all debts in 
the report are current. (GX 14) After the hearing, he submitted a credit report dated June 
12, 2025, reflecting that he has 16 open accounts, no late accounts, and no accounts in 
collection. (AX 5) 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
decision. An a dministrative judge must consider all available and reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
4 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
   
    
   
  
 
   
   
 
    
   
  
   
 
   
   
  
 
   
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
   
  
  
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865 
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant 
has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have 
established for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan at 531. Substantial 
evidence is “such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to 
support a conclusion in light of all the contrary evidence in the same record.” See I SCR 
Case No. 17- 04166 at 3 (App. Bd. Mar. 21, 2019) . It is “less than the weight of the 
evidence, and the possibility of drawing two inconsistent conclusions from the evidence 
does not prevent [a Judge’s] finding from being supported by substantial evidence.” 
Consolo v. Federal Maritime Comm’n, 383 U.S. 607, 620 (1966). “Substantial evidence” 
is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. Washington Metro. Area 
Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines presume a nexus or 
rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria listed therein and 
an applicant’s security suitability. ISCR Case No. 15-01253 at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 20, 2016).  
Once the  G overnment establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial  
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive  ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of  proving a mitigating condition,  
and the burden of disproving it  never shifts to the  Government.  See  ISCR Case No.  02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep.  22,  2005).   
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent  
with the national interest to grant or continue  his security clearance.”  ISCR Case No.  01-
20700 at  3 (App. Bd.  Dec. 19, 2002).  “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  Egan  at 531.   
Analysis  
Guideline  F, Financial Considerations  
The security concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. . . . An individual who is financially 
overextended is at greater risk of having to engage in illegal or otherwise 
questionable acts to generate funds. . . . 
5 
 
 
 
    
    
   
  
   
   
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
    
     
  
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
       
     
    
   
  
  
    
This concern is broader than the possibility that a person might knowingly 
compromise classified information to raise money. It encompasses concerns about a 
person’s self-control, judgment, and other qualities essential to protecting classified 
information. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible, 
unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding classified information. See ISCR 
Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012). 
The following disqualifying conditions under this guideline are potentially 
applicable: 
AG ¶  19(a): inability to  s
 atisfy debts;  
AG  ¶  19(b):  unwillingness to satisfy  deb ts regardless of the ability to do so;  
and  
AG ¶  19( c):  a history of not meeting financial  obl igations.  
The ev
idence of Applicant’s financial history during the period preceding his Navy 
service establishes the disqualifying conditions in AG ¶¶ 19(a) and 19(c). The evidence 
of his unwillingness to satisfy his old business debts due to his ignorance of his legal 
responsibilities as a sole proprietor and his belief in the unreliability of credit reports is 
sufficient to establish AG ¶ 19(b). 
The following mitigating conditions are potentially applicable: 
AG ¶  20(a): the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or  
oc
curred under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does not  
cast doubt on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good  
judgment;  
AG ¶  20( b):  t he conditions that resulted in the financial  problem were largely  
beyond the person's control (e.g., loss  of employment, a business
downturn,  unexpected medical  emergency,  a death, divorce or  separation,  
clear victimization by  predatory lending practices,  or identity theft), and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;  and  
AG ¶ 20(e): the individual has a reasonable basis to dispute the legitimacy  
of  t
he past -due debt  which is the cause of the problem and provides  
documented proof to  substantiate the basis of the dispute or provides  
evidence of actions to resolve the issue.  
AG
 ¶ 20(a) is established. Applicant’s delinquent debts were frequent, but they 
were incurred before he enlisted in the Navy in April 2017. Since then, he has served on 
active duty with distinction for five years. He has been entrusted with a security clearance, 
acquired important technical skills, and has been employed for more than two years as a 
trusted employee of a defense contractor. The circumstances under which he incurred 
delinquent business-related debts are not likely to recur. He is no longer an inexperienced 
tow truck drive r. He is now a skilled and responsible technici an. His conduct since his 
6 
 
 
 
   
      
 
     
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
     
   
 
   
 
    
 
  
     
  
   
  
 
enlistment in the Navy and continuing through his current employment by a defense 
contractor reflects his current reliability, trustworthiness, and good judgment. 
AG ¶ 20(b) is not established. Applicant’s business failure was largely beyond his 
control, but he did not act responsibly. I nstead of attempting to minimize the financial 
income of his loss, he simply “walked away” from it, without any effort toward an orderly 
dissolution. 
AG ¶ 20(e) is not established.  Applicant’s  description of the dispute  with the utility  
company alleged in  SOR ¶ 1.f, if supported by  evidence, would qualify  under this  
mitigating condition, but he submitted no evidence to support it.  He has disputed several  
of the other debts  alleged in the SOR, but he has provided no documentary evidence to  
support his assertions.  He  disputed  several  debts alleged in the SOR on the ground that  
they were business debts and not personal debts.  He apparently  did  not understand that  
a sole proprietorship is  “a business in which one person owns all the assets,  owes all the  
liabilities,  and operates in his or her personal  capacity.”  See  Black’s  Law Dictionary (12
th  
ed. 2024).  
Applicant’s recent credit reports  do not reflect the debts alleged in the SOR,  
However, the fact that  a debt no longer  appears on a credit report  does  not establish any  
meaningful, independent evidence as to the disposition of the debt. Debts may fall off  
credit reports for various reasons, including the passage of  time.  See, e.g., ISCR Case  
No. 18- 01250 at  2 (App.  Bd. Feb. 13, 2019).  While Applicant  was on active duty,  
enforcement of the debts was barred by the  Servicemembers  Civil Relief  Act  (SCRA), 50 
U.S.C.  §§ 3901 et sec.  There is no evidence that  any  of his former  creditors attempted  
to collect the  debts  after he was discharged in  June 2023,  more than  two years  ago,  and 
was  no longer protected by the SCRA.  
G
uideline E,  Personal Conduct  
The security concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to 
cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes. . . . 
The relevant disqualifying condition under this guideline is AG ¶16(a): 
[D]eliberate omission, concealment, or falsification of relevant facts from 
any personnel security questionnaire, personal history statement, or similar 
form used to conduct investigations, determine employment qualifications, 
award benefits or status, determine national security eligibility or 
trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities; 
7 
 
 
 
    
   
  
 
 
 
    
  
   
   
   
 
 
    
   
       
      
  
   
    
      
    
 
 
   
 
 
 
    
 
 
     
  
Applicant credibly testified that he answered “No” to the financial questions in his 
SCA because he did not believe that he had any delinquent personal debts. Thus, I 
conclude that AG ¶ 16(a) is not established. No other disqualifying conditions under this 
guideline are alleged or established. 
Whole-Person  Analysis  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant a security 
clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. An administrative judge must evaluate 
an applicant’s security eligibility by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct and 
all the relevant circumstances. An administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.   
I have incorporated my comments under Guidelines F and E in my whole-person 
analysis and applied the adjudicative factors in AG ¶ 2(d). Applicant was candid, sincere 
at credible at the hearing. Since his enlistment in the Navy and subsequent employment 
by a defense contractor, he has demonstrated financial responsibility. His recent credit 
reports reflect a clean financial record. After weighing the disqualifying and mitigating 
conditions under Guidelines F and E and evaluating all the evidence in the context of the 
whole person, I conclude Applicant has refuted the allegation in Guideline E that he 
intentionally falsified his SCA, and he has mitigated the security concerns under Guideline 
F, raised by his history of delinquent debts. 
Formal Findings  
I make the following formal findings on the allegations in the SOR: 
P
aragraph 1, Guideline F (Financial Considerations): FOR APPLICANT  
S
ubparagraphs  1.a-1.g:  For Applicant  
Paragraph 2, Guideline E (Personal Conduct):   FOR APPLICANT  
Subparagraph 2.a:  For Applicant  
8 
 
 
 
 
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion  
I conclude that it is clearly consistent with the national security interests of the 
United States to grant Applicant eligibility for access to classified information. Clearance 
is granted. 
LeRoy F. Foreman 
Administrative Judge 
9 