 
 
  
 
  
         
        
           
             
 
 
  
  
                      
   
   
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
      
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
 
 
________ 
________ 
DEPARTM
ENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance  
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 24-01289 
Appearances  
For Government: George A. Hawkins, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
11/25/2025 
Decision 
HARVEY, Mark, Administrative Judge: 
Security concerns arising under Guidelines H (drug involvement and substance 
misuse) and J (criminal conduct) are mitigated; however, Guideline E (personal conduct) 
security concerns are not mitigated. Eligibility for access to classified information is 
denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
Applicant submitted Electronic Questionnaires for Investigations Processing (e-
QIP) or security clearance applications (SCA) on June 6, 2021, and July 23, 2023 . 
(Government Exhibits (GE) 2; GE 1) On October 24, 2024, the Defense 
Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) sent him a Statement of Reasons 
(SOR) alleging security concerns under Guidelines H , J, and E. The DCSA acted under 
Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry 
(February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, 
Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as 
amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) promulgated in Security 
Executive Agent Directive 4, National Security Adjudicative Guidelines (December 10, 
2016), which became effective on June 8, 2017. 
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
   
  
    
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
   
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
    
      
  
 
On January 15, 2025, Applicant answered the SOR and requested a hearing 
before an administrative judge. On June 18, 2025, Department Counsel issued an 
amended SOR and added SOR ¶ 3.c. Applicant did not provide a response to SOR ¶ 3.c. 
On February 2, 2025, Department Counsel was ready to proceed, and on June 18, 2025, 
the case was assigned me. On July 3, 2025, the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals 
(DOHA) notified Applicant that his hearing was scheduled to be conducted by video 
teleconference on August 5, 2025. The hearing was convened as scheduled. On August 
15, 2025, DOHA received the transcript of the hearing. The record closed on October 7, 
2025. (Tr. 55) This decision was delayed when all administrative judges were furloughed 
from October 1 through November 12, 2025, during a federal government shutdown due 
to a lapse in federal funding. 
Department Counsel offered six exhibits; Applicant did not offer any exhibits;  and  
all proffered exhibits were admitted into evidence without objection. (Tr. 15-17;  GE 1 -GE  
6)  The record was held open until  October 7, 2025, to enable Applicant to submit  
documentary evidence. (Tr. 10, 56 -57) Applicant did not submit any post -hearing 
documentation.  
Statement of  Facts  
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.c, 
2.a, 3.a, and 3.b with explanations. He did not admit or deny SOR ¶ 3.c. His admissions 
are incorporated in my findings of fact. 
Applicant is a 25- year-old software and test engineer who has worked for a 
government contractor for 30 months (starting in May 2023). (Tr. 6-7, 20-21; GE 1 at 11) 
In 2018, he graduated from high school, and in 2023, he received a bachelor’s degree 
with a major in computer science. (Tr. 6) He has not served in the military. (Tr. 6, 20) He 
has never married, and he does not have any children. (Tr. 7, 20) He does not hold a 
security clearance. (Tr. 22) He requires a security clearance to maintain his current 
employment. (Tr. 22) 
Drug involvement, substance misuse,  and criminal conduct  
Applicant’s  employer does not permit use of illegal drugs. (Tr. 22)  SOR ¶¶ 1.a and  
1.b allege,  from about  November of 2019 to  about April  of  2022,  Applicant  used ecstasy  
with varying  frequency, and from about October 2018 to about 2019,  he used marijuana  
with varying frequency, respectively.  
Applicant said he used ecstasy three times from about November of 2019 to about 
April of 2022. (Tr. 29-38) In his July 23, 2023 SCA he said he first used ecstasy in May of 
2021 (shortly before completion of his June 6, 2021 SCA) , and most recently, in April of 
2022. Applicant described his ecstasy use as follows: 
I  took ecstasy multiple times spanning around 2021 to 2022. I have not done 
it since and will  never touch it again, I realize that there were consequences  
to my actions and I have since learned the harmful implications of illegal  
2 
 
 
 
 
    
 
   
   
       
   
 
 
   
  
    
 
   
  
 
      
 
 
 
    
 
    
    
     
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
    
    
   
 
  
   
substances to society  and my community.  . . .  I  used it  around once every  
four months from  the middle of 2021 to the middle of 2022, so about  four  
times total.  (GE 1 at 45)  
In his response to September 1, 2024 DOHA interrogatories, Applicant said he 
used ecstasy about once a year from November of 2019 to April of 2022. (GE 3 at 2) 
At his hearing, Applicant initially said he used marijuana once in 2018 when he 
was 18 years old. (Tr. 23- 24, 26) In his SOR response, he said, “I did it once and have 
not done marijuana since then. ” (HE 3) In his June 9, 2021 SCA, he said he used 
marijuana three or four times in September 2019. (GE 2 at 32) In his July 23, 2023 SCA, 
he said he used marijuana in September of 2019, and he explained: 
I experimented with marijuana earlier in college which I did not enjoy nor 
did I make a habit. I regretted it and I don’t intend on ever doing it again. It 
is not something I am particularly proud of. . . . I tried marijuana maybe three 
or four times in 2019, but it was not something that I enjoyed. (GE 1 at 44) 
Later at his hearing after being confronted by the information in his SCA about 
three or four marijuana uses, he explained it was three or four hits off a bong at a single 
session. (Tr. 27-29) 
SOR ¶¶ 1. c and 2.a allege i n about July 2022, Applicant was arrested for and 
charged with Schedule I/II Sell/Give/Distribute, a Controlled Substance Classified in 
Schedule I or II (Ecstasy), a felony. 
In April of 2022, Applicant purchased two ecstasy pills. (Tr. 38) He used half of one 
ecstasy pill and retained 1 ½ ecstasy pills. (Tr. 38) He cut one of the pills in half so that 
he had three half pills of ecstasy. (Tr. 39 ; GE 6 ) In July of 2022, Applicant provided 
ecstasy pills to an undercover police officer for $90, and the officer arrested Applicant 
after the transaction. (Tr. 40; GE 3 at 7) 
Applicant attended drug-related counseling, took some drug tests, and completed 
some classes when his criminal case was pending trial. (Tr. 42, 45) The drug-related 
counseling was once a month for three or four months. (Tr. 45-46) On February 1, 2023, 
he received deferred adjudication or a diversion to resolve the charge. (Tr. 43; GE 5) He 
believed his charge was dismissed in 2023; however, he did not provide documentation 
showing the charge was dismissed. (Tr. 48) 
Personal conduct  
SOR ¶ 3.a alleges Applicant falsified material facts on his June 9, 2021 SCA , in 
response to the following question: “Section 23 - Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity 
Illegal Use of Drugs or Controlled Substances In the last seven (7) years, have you 
illegally used any drugs or controlled substances? Use of a drug or controlled substance 
includes injecting, snorting, inhaling, swallowing, experimenting with or otherwise 
consuming any drug or controlled substance?” Applicant only reported marijuana use and 
3 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
    
  
  
  
  
 
    
  
 
   
  
      
    
  
    
 
    
 
    
 
   
    
   
 
   
   
  
   
 
 
 
    
    
 
    
  
deliberately failed to disclose that he used ecstasy within about one year of the completion 
of his June 9, 2021 SCA, as set forth in SOR ¶ 1.a, above. 
In his SOR response to ¶ 3.a, Applicant said: 
I admit to omitting the first usage of ecstasy when I was 18 as stated above 
in my 2021 e- QIP. I take full responsibility for this omission and 
acknowledge that it was a serious mistake. At the time, I was concerned 
about how my full disclosure might impact my opportunities, but I now 
realize that honesty and transparency [are] critical in this process. I deeply 
regret my actions and the lack of integrity I displayed. Moving forward, I am 
committed to being completely truthful and demonstrating accountabili ty in 
both my personal and professional life. I have been completely honest in 
my current e-QIP. 
SOR ¶ 3.b alleges the information in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, and 1.c, above. Applicant 
admitted his use of marijuana and ecstasy in his SOR response and at his hearing. 
Amended SOR ¶ 3.c alleges Applicant falsified material facts during a September 
7, 2023, interview with an authorized investigator for the U.S. Department of Defense, 
when he described the circumstances of his felony arrest by stating he was solicited in a 
group chat to sell drugs to a mutual friend. In truth, he advertised himself as an ecstasy 
pill supplier, solicited his sale by social media, and arranged to meet an unknown buyer 
at his listed location. 
Applicant’s September 7, 2023 summary of personal subject interview (PSI) states: 
The subject was in a group chat when someone [who ] shared a mutual 
friend with the subject asked if anyone had drugs and the subject answered 
“Yes”. Both arranged to meet at [a store] but somehow the police found out 
[and he was] arrested by [the police] there. The subject was charged wit h 
distributing drugs. (GE 3 at 7) 
The police report indicates “Detective redacted made contact with an ecstasy pill 
supplier via social media who agreed to meet at a listed location and sell 3 pills for 90 
dollars.” (Tr. 41; GE 6) 
Policies  
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion of the Executive 
Branch in regulating access to information pertaining to national security emphasizing, 
“no one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 
518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to “control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual 
is sufficiently trustworthy” to have access to such information. Id. at 527. The President 
has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants eligibility for 
access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly consistent with the 
4 
 
 
  
    
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
   
   
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation 
about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Clearance 
decisions must be “in terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a 
determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 § 7. 
Thus, this decision should not be construed to suggest that it is based, in whole or in part, 
on any express or implied determination about applicant’s allegiance, loyalty, or 
patriotism. It is merely an indication the applicant has not met the strict guidelines the 
President, Secretary of Defense, and Director of National Intelligence have established 
for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan, 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth., 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 95 -0611 at 2 
(App. Bd. May 2, 1996). 
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition by substantial  
evidence, the burden shifts  to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or  mitigate the  
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant “has the ultimate burden of  demonstrating that it  
is clearly consistent with the national interest  to grant or continue his [or  her] security  
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01- 20700 at 3  (App. Bd.  Dec. 19, 2002). The burden of  
disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the Government.  See ISCR Case No. 02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd.  Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they must,  on the side of denials.”  Egan, 484 U.S. at 531;  see AG ¶ 2(b).   
5 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
    
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
Analysis  
Drug Involvement,  Substance Misuse, and Criminal Conduct  
AG ¶ 24 provides the security concern arising from drug involvement and 
substance misuse stating: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises questions 
about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and 
regulations. Controlled substance means any “controlled substance” as 
defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in 
this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
AG ¶ 30 describes the security concern about criminal conduct, “Criminal activity 
creates doubt about a person’s judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness. By its very 
nature, it calls into question a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, r ules, 
and regulations.” 
AG ¶ 25 provides conditions that could raise a drug involvement and substance 
misuse security concern and may be disqualifying in this case: “(a) any substance misuse 
(see above definition)” and “(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance, including 
cultivation, processing, manufacture, purchase, sale, or distribution; or possession of drug 
paraphernalia.” 
AG ¶ 31 provides t wo criminal conduct conditions that could raise a security 
concern and may be disqualifying in this case: 
(a) a pattern of minor offenses, any one of which on its own would be  
unl
ikely to affect a national security eligibility decision, but which in  
combination cast doubt on the individual’s judgment, reliability, or  
trustworthiness;  and  
(b) evidence (including, but not limited to, a credible allegation, an 
adm
ission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of  
whether the individual was formally charged, prosecuted, or convicted.  
AG ¶¶ 2 5(a
), 25(c), 31(a), and 31(b) are established. Discussion of the 
disqualifying conditions is in the mitigating section infra. AG ¶ 26 lists conditions that could 
mitigate drug involvement and substance misuse security concerns: 
6 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)  the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or happened 
under s
uch circumstances that it is unlikely  to recur or  does not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;  
(b) the individual acknowledges his or her drug involvement and substance  
mi
suse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and 
has established a pattern of abstinence, including, but not limited to:  
 (1) di sassociation from drug- usi ng associates and contacts;  
 (2) changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were used; and  
 (3) providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug 
involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future  
involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation of national  security  
eligibility;  
(c) abuse of prescription drugs was after  a sev ere or prolonged illness  
during which these drugs were prescribed, and abuse has since ended; and  
(d) satisfactory completion of a prescribed drug treatment  progr am,  
including,  but not limited to, rehabilitation and aftercare requirements,  
without recurrence of  abuse, and a favorable prognosis by a duly qualified  
medical professional.  
AG ¶
 32 lists four conditions that could mitigate criminal conduct security concerns: 
(a) so much time has  elaps ed since the criminal behavior happened, or it  
happened under such unusual circumstances,  that it is  unlikely to recur and 
does not cast doubt on the individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, or good 
judgment;  
(b) the individual was pressured or coerced into committing the act and  
thos
e pressures are no longer present in the person’s life;  
(c) no reliable evidence to support  that  the individual committed the offense;  
and  
(d) there is evidence of successful rehabilitation; including, but not limited 
to,  t
he passage of time without recurrence of criminal activity, restitution,  
compliance with the terms of parole or probation, job training or higher  
education, good employment  record, or constructive community  
involvement.  
In I
SCR Case No. 10 -04641 at 4 (App. Bd. Sept. 24, 2013), the DOHA Appeal 
Board concisely explained Applicant’s responsibility for proving the applicability of 
mitigating conditions as follows: 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
                      
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Once a concern arises regarding an Applicant’s security clearance  
eligibility, there is a strong presumption against the grant or maintenance of  
a security clearance.  See Dorfmont v. Brown , 913 F. 2d 1399, 1401 (9th  
Cir. 1990),  cert. denied, 499 U.S. 905 (1991). After the Government  
presents evidence raising security concerns, the burden shifts to the  
applicant to rebut or mitigate those concerns.  See Directive ¶ E3.1.15. The  
standard applicable in security clearance decisions is that articulated in  
Egan, supra. “Any doubt concerning personnel being considered for access  
to classified information will be resolved in favor of the national  security.”  
Directive, Enclosure 2, [App. A] ¶  2(b).    
Applicant admitted that he possessed and used marijuana  and ecstasy. He  sold  
ecstasy to  an undercover police officer. Marijuana and ecstasy are  listed on Schedule I  of  
the Controlled Substances Act.  See  21 U.S.C. § 812(c); Drug Enforcement Administration  
(DEA)  listing at  https://www.dea.gov/drug- information/drug-scheduling  (information link  
on bot
tom of web page).  His  multiple  possessions of  marijuana  and ecstasy and sale  of 
ecstasy are  federal crimes. Drugs listed  as  Schedule I Controlled Substances, have “no 
‘currently accepted medical use in treatment.’  21 U.S.C. § 812(a)(1)(B).” ISCR Case  No.  
24-01307  at 3 (App. Bd. July 17,  2025).  See  DEA website,  supra.   
The Appeal
 Board provided a detailed discussion of the mitigating conditions 
pertaining to marijuana possessions and use: 
In recognition of the changing landscape of marijuana law and in 
consideration of the Director of National Intelligence’s Clarifying Guidance 
Concerning Marijuana, the Board has noted that significant factual and legal 
differences may exist between an applicant’s state-compliant marijuana use 
and use of other illegal drugs, holding that such differences are an important 
aspect of the case that a reasonable person would expect to be addressed. 
See ISCR Case No. 22 -02132 at 3 (App. Bd. Oct. 27, 2023). In init ial 
eligibility determinations, if the record reflects such differences, the judge 
must articulate a rational basis for why, after consideration of those 
differences and the Clarifying Guidance, the conduct continues to cast 
doubt on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, and good 
judgment. 
ISCR Case No. 23-02402 at 4 (App. Bd. Feb. 19, 2025) (internal footnotes omitted). 
The SecEA promulgated clarifying guidance concerning marijuana- related issues 
in security clearance adjudications the Appeal Board cited states as follows: 
[Federal] agencies are instructed that prior recreational marijuana use by 
an individual may be relevant to adjudications but not determinative. The 
SecEA has provided direction in [the adjudicative guidelines] to agencies 
that requires them to use a “whol e-person concept.” This requires 
adjudicators to carefully weigh a few variables in an individual’s life to 
determine whether that individual’s behavior raises a security concern, if at 
8 
 
 
 
    
 
    
   
   
   
  
 
   
     
 
 
 
  
  
 
    
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
all, and whether that  concern has been mitigated such that the individual  
may now receive a favorable adjudicative determination. Relevant  
mitigations include, but are not limited to, frequency of use and whether the 
individual can demonstrate that future use is  unlikely to recur, including by  
signing an attestation or other such appropriate mitigation. Additionally, in  
light of the  long-standing federal law and policy prohibiting illegal drug use 
while occupying a sensitive position or  holding a security c learance,  
agencies are encouraged to advise prospective national security workforce  
employees that  they  should refrain from any future marijuana use upon  
initiation of the national security vetting process, which commences once  
the individual signs the certification contained in the Standard Form 86 (SF-
86), Questionnaire for National Security Positions.  
SecEA Guidance at 2 (quoted in ISCR Case No. 20-02974 at 3-4 (App. Bd. Feb. 1, 2022)). 
The DOHA Appeal Board has cited the importance of consideration of “ the 
changing landscape of marijuana law and . . . of the Director of National Intelligence’s 
Clarifying Guidance Concerning Marijuana.” ISCR Case No. 23-02402 at 4 (App. Bd. Feb. 
19, 2025). See also ISCR Case No. 24 -00914 at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 9, 2025) (noting the 
“evolving landscape of marijuana law and policy,” “the resulting increasing prevalence of 
marijuana use,” and in some instances “recreational marijuana use deserves less, or even 
no negative inference on judgment.”). The landscape concerning possession and 
distribution of ecstasy has not evolved, and possession and distribution of ecstasy 
violates state and federal law. 
The Appeal Board has “never established a ‘bright line’  rule as to recency of drug  
use. The extent to which security concerns  may have become attenuated through the  
passage of time is a question that must be resolved based on the evidence as a whole.”  
See  ISCR  Case No. 14-01847 at  3 (App. Bd. Apr. 9, 2015).  See also  ISCR Case No. 24-
01307  at 5 (App. Bd.  July 17, 2025) (stating  same).  
Several factors are important in the assessment of mitigation of possession and 
use of illegal drugs: the duration of abstinence; state law; company policy; use after 
completion of an SCA; use while holding a sensitive position; use while having access to 
classified information; types of other illegal drugs used; continued association with drug 
users; broken promises not to use in the future; and promises not to use in the future. 
See ISCR 24 -01001 (App. Bd. Apr. 22, 2025) (affirming denial of security clearance; 
factors: one year of abstinence from marijuana use; used marijuana after completion of 
an SCA; and used marijuana after promising not to use marijuana on SCA and during an 
OPM interview); ISCR Case No. 24 -01005 (App. Bd. Apr. 11, 2025) (denial of security 
clearance reversed; factors: two years of abstinence from marijuana use; no marijuana 
use while holding a security clearance or occupying sensitive position; marijuana 
possession and use w ere not illegal under state law; no marijuana use after notice that 
marijuana use was federally illegal; and no evidence of broken promises not to use 
marijuana).  
9 
 
 
   
 
   
   
 
     
      
       
  
    
  
   
  
  
  
 
     
  
     
      
       
   
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
     
 
 
 
Applicant used marijuana three or four times in September of 2019. In his response 
to September 1, 2024 DOHA interrogatories, Applicant said he used ecstasy about once 
a year from November of 2019 to April of 2022. In July of 2022, he s old ecstasy to an 
undercover police officer. 
Applicant provided some important mitigating information. He eventually disclosed 
his involvement with illegal drugs during the security clearance process. His possessions 
and uses of marijuana, and his possessions and uses of ecstasy before July of 2022 were 
not discovered through a polygraph test, law enforcement investigation, or a urinalysis 
test. His possession and sale of ecstasy occurred in July of 2022 . His most recent 
involvement with i llegal drugs occur red before he was employed by a DOD contractor 
and before he held a security clearance; however, it occurred after he completed his SCA 
in 2021. At his hearing, he promised not to use illegal drugs in the future. He understands 
that any future involvement or misuse of drugs is grounds for revocation of national 
security eligibility. 
AG ¶¶ 26(a) and 32(a) apply. Applicant has established a sufficient period of 
abstinence from involvement with illegal drugs and criminal activity relating to illegal 
drugs. See ISCR Case No. 24 -01307 at 5 (App. Bd. July 17, 2025). The time between 
Applicant’s most recent involvement with illegal drugs and criminal activity and his hearing 
was about 37 months (July 2022 to August 2025). This period is sufficient to establish a 
pattern of abstinence under all the circumstances. Future illegal involvement with illegal 
drugs “is unlikely to recur [and] does not cast doubt on his current reliability, 
trustworthiness, [and] good judgment .” Guidelines H and J security concerns are 
mitigated. 
Personal Conduct  
AG ¶ 15 explains why personal conduct is a security concern stating: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect 
classified information. Of special interest is any failure to provide truthful 
and candid answers during the security clearance process or any other 
failure to cooperate with the security clearance process. . . . 
AG ¶ 16 lists personal conduct disqualifying conditions that are potentially relevant 
in this case as follows: 
(a) deliberate omission, concealment, or falsification of  re
 levant facts from  
any personnel  security questionnaire, personal history statement,  or similar  
form used to conduct  investigations, determine employment  qualifications,  
award benefits or status, determine nat  ional security eligibility or  
trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities;   
10 
 
 
 
 
 
     
    
    
 
  
 
    
   
  
  
   
 
   
     
  
  
   
 
    
    
  
      
  
    
 
(b) deliberately providing false or misleading information; or concealing or  
omi
tting  information, concerning relevant facts to an employer, investigator,  
security official,  competent  medical or mental health professional involved  
in making a recommendation  relevant  to a national security eligibility  
determination, or other official government  representative;   
(c) credible adverse information in several adjudicative issue areas that is  
not s
ufficient  for an adverse determination under any other single guideline,  
but which, when c onsidered as a whole, supports a whole- person  
assessment of questionable judgment,  untrustworthiness, unreliability, lack  
of candor, unwillingness to comply with rules and r  egulations, or other  
characteristics indicating that  the individua l may not  properly  safeguard 
classified or sensitive information;  and  
(e) personal conduct, or concealment of information about one's conduct,  
that
 creates a v ulnerability to exploitation, manipulation, or duress by a  
foreign intelligence entity or  other individual or group. Such conduct  
includes:  (1) engaging in activities  which, if known, could affect  the person's  
personal,  professional, or community standing.  
Appli
cant eventually disclosed more complete information about his history of 
involvement with illegal drugs to security officials after he was arrested for the sale of 
ecstasy. He could not be coerced by his history of illegal drug involvement because 
security officials and law enforcement are aware of his involvement with illegal drugs. AG 
¶ 16(e) does not apply. 
SOR ¶ 3.c alleges Applicant provided a false statement to the investigator during 
his PSI about his role in the attempted sale of ecstasy. It is unclear from the summary of 
interview what Applicant said to the undercover police officer. The undercover police 
officer was on the website to see if anyone would sell illegal drugs to him. Applicant was 
on the website to see if he could sell ecstasy. The record is unclear about why the 
undercover officer believed he could purchase ecstasy from anyone on the websi te. It is 
also unclear from the police report whether one of Applicant’s friends introduced the 
undercover police officer to Applicant. The summary does not indicate who originated the 
discussion of ecstasy, Applicant or the undercover officer. The record does not contain 
substantial evidence that Applicant intentionally lied during his PSI. AG ¶ 16(b) and the 
allegation in SOR ¶ 3.c is refuted. 
AG ¶ 16(a) is established for the allegation in SOR ¶ 3.a. Applicant admitted that 
he intentionally chose not to disclose his involvement with ecstasy on his 2021 SCA. He 
said in his SOR response that at the time of his completion of his 2021 SCA, he “ was 
concerned about how [his] full disclosure might impact [his] opportunities,” and based on 
this concern he did not disclose his recent use of ecstasy. Consideration of AG ¶ 17 , 
which lists conditions that could mitigate personal conduct security concerns, is required: 
(a) the individual made prompt,  good
 -faith efforts  to correct the omission,  
concealment,  or falsification before being confronted with the facts;  
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
     
 
  
  
 
    
   
     
   
   
   
 
(b)  the refusal or  f
 ailure to cooperate, omission, or concealment was caused  
or  significantly contributed to by advice of legal counsel or of a person with  
professional  responsibilities for advising or instructing the individual  
specifically concerning security  processes. Upon being made aware of the 
requirement to cooperate or provide the i  nformation, the individual  
cooperated fully and truthfully;  
 
(c)  t he offense is so minor, or so  much time has passed, or the behavior is  
so infrequent,  or it happened under such unique circumstances that it is  
unlikely to recur and does not  cast doubt on the individual's reliability,  
trustworthiness, or good judgment;  
(d) the individual has  ac knowledged the behavior and obtained counseling  
to change the beha vior or taken other  positive steps to alleviate the 
stressors, circumstances,  or factors  that  contributed to untrustworthy,  
unreliable, or other inappropriate behavior, and such behav ior is unlikely to  
recur;  
(e)  the individual has taken positive steps to reduce or eliminate vulnerability  
to  ex
ploitation, manipulation, or duress;  and  
(f) the information was unsubstantiated or from a source of questionable  
r
eliability.   
SO
R ¶ 3.b cross alleges the same conduct as alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, and 1.c, 
and indicates the conduct also raises personal conduct security concerns. SOR ¶ 3.b is 
mitigated for the same reasons that SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.c are mitigated. 
In ADP Case No. 17 -03932 at 3 (App. Bd. Feb. 14, 2019), the Appeal Board 
recognized the importance of circumstantial evidence of intent in falsification cases: 
When evaluating the deliberate nature of an alleged falsification, a Judge 
should consider the applicant’s mens rea in light of the entirety of the record 
evidence. See, e.g., ADP Case No. 15-07979 at 5 (App. Bd. May 30, 2017). 
As a practical matter, a finding regarding an applicant’s intent or state of 
mind may not always be based on an applicant’s statements, but rather may 
rely on circumstantial evidence. Id. 
Applicant omitted information from his June 6, 2021 SCA about his ecstasy 
possession and use. He used ecstasy before and after he completed his June 6, 2021 
SCA, and he s old ecstasy in July 2022 after completion of his 2021 SCA. In his SOR 
response, he admitted that at the time he completed his June 6, 2021 SCA he intentionally 
omitted information about his ecstasy involvement to conceal information that might hurt 
his career. 
12 
 
 
   
     
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
    
   
 
  
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
No mitigating conditions apply to the falsification of Applicant’s June 6, 2021 SCA. 
His false statement casts doubt on his reliability, trustworthiness, and good judgment. 
Personal conduct security concerns are not mitigated. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all the circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3)  the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8)  the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), “[t]he ultimate determination” of whether to grant a security 
clearance “must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration” 
of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. My comments under Guidelines H, J, and 
E are incorporated in my whole- person analysis. Some of the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) were 
addressed under those guidelines but some warrant additional comment. 
Applicant is a 25- year-old software and test engineer who has worked for a 
government contractor for 30 months (starting in May 2023). In 2023, he received a 
bachelor’s degree with a major in computer science. He does not hold a security 
clearance. 
The disqualifying and mitigating information is discussed in the drug involvement 
and substance misuse, criminal conduct, and personal conduct sections, supra. The 
reasons for denying Applicant’s security clearance are more persuasive than the reasons 
for granting his security clearance. 
It is well settled that once a concern arises regarding an applicant’s security 
clearance eligibility, there is a strong presumption against granting a security clearance. 
See Dorfmont, 913 F. 2d at 1401. “[A] favorable clearance decision means that the record 
discloses no basis for doubt about an applicant’s eligibility for access to classified 
information.” ISCR Case No. 18-02085 at 7 (App. Bd. Jan. 3, 2020) (citing ISCR Case 
No. 12-00270 at 3 (App. Bd. Jan. 17, 2014)). 
I have carefully applied the law, as set forth in Egan, Exec. Or. 10865, the Directive, 
the AGs, and the Appeal Board’s jurisprudence, to the facts and circumstances in the 
context of the whole person. Drug involvement and substance misuse and criminal 
13 
 
 
  
    
 
 
  
  
  
 
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
__________________________ 
conduct security concerns are mitigated; however, personal conduct security concerns 
arising from his falsification of his June 9, 2021 SCA are not mitigated. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,
  Guideline H:    FOR  APPL ICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a  through 1.c:  For  Applicant  
Paragraph 2, Guideline J:    FOR  APPLICANT  
For  Applicant   S ubparagraph 2.a:   
Paragraph 3, Guideline E:   AGAINST APPLICANT  
A
gainst Applicant   S ubparagraph 3.a:   
 Subparagraph 3.c:   
S
ubparagraph 3.b:   For  Applicant  
For Applicant   
Conclusion  
Cons
idering all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant Applicant eligibility for 
access to classified information. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Mark Harvey 
Administrative Judge 
14 