 
                                                              
 
 
 
                                                             
 
  
           
             
 
 
    
  
       
  
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
   
  
 
 
    
     
         
   
 
   
 
  
 
      
 
   
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTM
ENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-02228 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Andrew H. Henderson, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
06/17/2025 
Decision 
HALE, Charles C., Administrative Judge: 
This case involves security concerns raised under Guideline F (Financial 
Considerations) and Guideline E (Personal Conduct) . Eligibility for access to classified 
information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on March 24, 2024. On 
February 26, 2025, the Department of Defense (DoD) sent him a Statement of Reasons 
(SOR) alleging security concerns under Guidelines F and E . The DoD acted under 
Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry 
(February 20, 1960), as amended; D oD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel 
Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the 
adjudicative guidelines (AG) promulgated in Security Executive Agent Directive 4, 
National Security Adjudicative Guidelines (December 10, 2016). 
Applicant answered the SOR on March 10, 2025, and requested a decision on the 
written record. On April 7, 2025, pursuant to DoD Directive 5220.6, the Government 
converted the case to a hearing before an administrative judge. Department Counsel was 
1 
 
 
 
  
     
   
    
   
      
   
    
    
     
  
 
    
    
     
  
  
 
 
 
       
   
       
     
     
     
    
   
    
 
      
        
   
  
  
   
        
   
    
       
ready to proceed on April 9, 2025, and the case was assigned to me on April 15, 2025. 
On April 23, 2025, the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) notified Applicant 
that the hearing was scheduled for May 28, 2025. I convened the hearing as scheduled. 
Government Exhibits (G E) 1 through 9 were admitted in evidence without objection. 
Applicant testified and the items submitted with his Answer were marked as Applicant 
Exhibits (AE) A-M. Applicant testified but did not present the testimony of any other 
witnesses or additional documentary evidence. I held the record open until June 11, 2025, 
to enable Applicant to submit documentary evidence. He timely submitted documents AE 
N through AE V , which were admitted into evidence without objection . AE N is a 
description of what constitutes AE O through AE V. DOHA received the transcript (Tr.) on 
June 11, 2025. 
The Government requested I take administrative notice of state c ode regulations 
pertaining to sports wagering, excerpts from IRS Publication 505, tax withholding and 
estimated tax, and IRS Topic No. 419, gambling income and losses. These items were 
marked as Hearing Exhibits (HE) I-III. The Government’s request for administrative notice 
was granted without objection. (Tr. 15-16.) 
Findings of Fact  
 Applicant  admitted five  of the seven debts  alleged, SOR ¶¶ 1. b  through 1.f.  He 
denied the  debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1. a  and 1.g as having been paid debts in full. He 
denied SOR ¶ 1.h, which  alleged  the debts  in  SOR ¶¶ 1.b through 1.g were due to his  
excessive online sports betting.  He denied the falsifications alleged in SOR ¶¶  2.a  through 
2.d.  His admissions are incorporated into the findings  of fact.   
Applicant is a 33-year-old field mechanical engineer . He has worked for his 
clearance sponsor since April 2024. Prior to his current position he worked as a project 
assessor for company BV (BV), from October 2019 to April 2024. He still does work for 
BV while his security clearance eligibility is being resolved. He was terminated from an 
engineering firm in June of 2019 after two years. During the interim between engineering 
positions in mid-2019, he worked as a night associate at a major home supply store. He 
has never held a security clearance. He married in 2021 and divorced in 2023. He has 
one child from the marriage. He and his ex-wife share custody of their one child, and she 
has recently moved back into the home. (GE 1, GE 2, GE 9; AE K; Tr. at 37-41, 125-126.) 
Applicant estimated he made $80,000 in 2023 with BV. With his new employer his 
annual salary increased to $120,000. When he lost his interim clearance, he returned to 
BV and has been working on a per project basis and not as a salaried employee . By 
working per project he stated that his annual income has increased to $120,000, though 
without benefits. He received bonuses at least twice of around $2,000 from BV in the last 
five years. He has about $12,000 in his 401K pension plans. In response to Government 
interrogatories, he provided a budget that showed a monthly net remainder of $2,147 and 
listed his monthly payments for the alleged debts. He acknowledged taking $1,500 loans 
out against his 401K accounts to help get ahead of bills. He testified he tried working with 
a debt relief company but they advised him to stop making payments and he realized he 
2 
 
 
 
      
    
 
 
 
 
  
     
       
 
  
   
     
   
  
      
   
      
     
  
        
  
did not want this approach because he was already behind on debt payments. He elected 
to work on his debts himself. (GE 2; Tr. 57-59, 89-90, 106-107, 120.) 
Guideline F  
SOR ¶ 1.a:  You are indebted to the Federal Government in the approximate  
amount of $4,800.00 for tax year  2023. As of the date of  this Statement of  Reasons, 
the taxes remain unpaid. Applicant  denied this allegation on the basis he made the final  
payment  on the debt on March 11, 2025.  He admitted he filed his return late  and paid a  
penalty  for late filing on June 3, 2024. He filed late because he and his former spouse  
were still working through who would have the exemption for the child. His former spouse 
took the exemption and that resulted in the tax debt.  (GE  2; AE K; Tr.  40-43.)   
SOR ¶ 1.b:  You are  indebted on a  judgment obtained  by a creditor  in 
December 2023 in the approximate amount of $7,668.82. As of the date of this  
Statement of Reasons, the judgment remains unpaid. Applicant  admitted  
responsibility for  this  debt  in his Answer and stated that payment plan has been arranged  
with the debt collector  and as of March 10, 2025, there was  a  remaining balance of  
$5,972.  The debt arose from  a personal loan in the amount of  $6,500 that he took out to  
resolve other debts, in particular credit card  debt that arose from  working for BV .  The 
creditor filed suit in Novem ber 2023.  He  provided  evidence that  he made payments in 
December 2023  and January  through March 2024 in the amount  of $214.07.  Applicant  
ultimately entered into  a consent agreement in the case.  In hi s post-hearing  submission,  
he  included his  most  recent payments in April and May 2025  and payments  prior to  
completing his SCA. (GE  2 at 39, GE  6; AE C,  AE O,  AE R;  Tr. 43-48.)  
Applicant explained his company did not issue him a credit card and it was up to 
him to handle his travel bookings with his own credit card. The company would repay him 
based on his expense report. He acknowledges his company paid his expenses stating: 
[M]y check, it was bigger than  usual because the m oney  that  I got extra, I  
was supposed t o pay  off the credit card and  stuff. But I failed to do  that.   I 
had a lot of  money,  and I did  other things with i t. And that's  how I  became  
more and more in debt with t he credit card.  (Tr.  46.)  
SOR ¶ 1.c: You are indebted on an account that is delinquent in the 
approximate amount of $9,808.18, and that the creditor has agreed to settle for the 
reduced balance of $8,278.55 if you comply with the terms of the settlement 
agreement you reached in November 2024. As of the date of this Statement of 
Reasons, the account remains delinquent. Applicant in his Answer admitted the debt; 
that a payment plan has been arranged with the debt collector ; and that as of March 10, 
2025, there was a remaining balance of $7,278. He pledged to continue to show good 
faith effort to repay overdue creditors and resolve debt. The debt arose from a $10,000 
loan, which he had taken out in October 2022. He took the loan out to pay the credit card 
debt discussed in SOR ¶ 1.b. He did not start paying the creditor until they sued him in 
October of 2024. 
3 
 
 
 
 
      
      
        
    
   
     
      
 
   
       
       
         
   
 
 
 
   
   
     
       
       
        
    
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
   
  
Applicant’s March 2024 credit report shows the loan at 150 days past due. He 
testified the creditor did not start contacting him until after he filled out his SCA. He offered 
his settlement agreement that he signed on November 11, 2024, and was agreed to by 
the creditor on November 21, 2024, along with the first four monthly payments of $250. 
In his post-hearing submission, he offered evidence of a single payment of $230.95 on 
January 18, 2024, prior to completing his SCA . He also included his most recent 
payments in April and May 2025. (Answer; AE D1-D2, AE P, AE R; GE 3; Tr. 55-60.) 
Applicant blamed his divorce for the debt. When he sep arated and went down to 
one household income he fell behind. He had been splitting bills with his spouse but after 
the separation he stated he was paying all the household bills instead paying off his credit 
card bills. He is responsible for the mortgage and his car note, and he prioritized these 
debts over his credit card debt. He figured he could catch up on credit card debt despite 
a drop in his credit. (Tr. 57-60.) 
SOR ¶ 1. d: You are indebted on a  judgment obtained against you in  
November 2024 in the approximate amount of $5,804.80. As of the date of this  
Statement of  Reasons, the judgment remains unpaid .  Applicant  in h is Answer  
admitted the allegation and stated a payment plan ha d  been arranged with the debt  
collector  and that as of March 10, 2025, there wa s a  remaining  balance of $5,069.  He 
included  the checks for his  monthly pay ments  of $245 made i n December 2024  and  
January and February  2025.  In his post-hearing submissions, he included the Notice of  
Recorded Judgment dated February 27, 2025, which reflected the judgment had been  
ordered and entered on November 14, 2024. (AE F, AE R,  AE V; Tr. 59-61.)   
SOR ¶ 1.e: You are indebted to credit card company for an account that has 
been placed for collection in the approximate amount of $17,818. As of the date of 
this Statement of Reasons, the account remains delinquent. In his Answer, Applicant 
admitted the debt and stated that a settlement agreement had been reached with the 
creditor for $8,175. Government Exhibit 3, an April 2024 credit report, shows the account 
had been charged off and that the account was over 180 days past due in April 2024. He 
testified he was making payments on the card but then stated: 
[I]f the card is charged off,  I'm  not  going t o s pend the money that I pay my  
mortgage. If  I'm already struggling, I'm  not  going to spend the money  I pay  
my  mortgage or  my car note to try to save a card  that's already  charged off.  
(Tr.  70-71.)  
He offered evidence of two payments in January and February 2025 for $175 and $400 
respectively and in his post -hearing submission he offered evidence of two additional 
$400 payments. (AE J, AE R; Tr. 72-73.) 
SOR ¶ 1.f: You are indebted to furniture store for an account that has been 
placed for collection in the approximate amount of $3,382. As of the date of this 
Statement of Reasons, the account remains delinquent . Applicant admitted 
4 
 
 
 
    
     
    
  
 
 
     
 
 
 
   
    
      
       
  
  
       
       
   
    
 
responsibility for this debt. He stated in his Answer a payment plan had been arranged 
with the debt collector and the remaining balance was $2,960. He included his payment 
history, which reflected two payments made by phone in January and February 2025 for 
$140.92. (Answer.) 
Applicant  opened the account  in June  2022  to  furnish  he and his  then wife’s  new  
townhome.  He testified “once everything  happened,  I  had to stop making payments  
towards that as  well.”  He admitted he did look at it  as a priority  and could come back and  
pay it off later. He admitted in  Government interrogatories that  he was  behind on his  
payments in September 2023  and that  he received an email  in December 2023 that  the 
account was charged off or placed for collection.  He offered evidence in his post-hearing 
submission of two $140.92  payments in April and May  of 2025.  (GE 2; AE I, AE R; Tr.  78-
80.)  
As to why he the denied the debt both on his SCA and to the investigator in his 
interview, Applicant testified: 
Yes, yes. I  didn't know if it  was in collection or  not. That's the problem. When  
I filled out the application, it asked me specifically  about what's in collection.  
I didn't know the status of these accounts.  It's the difference between  
knowing something is late and k nowing that versus it's in collection.  Now I  
knew it  was late. But  I don't know the exact date that they  put  it in collection.  
So,  I'd have to look back at that, see  the exact date they  put in.  (Tr. 80.)  
SOR ¶ 1.g: You are indebted to a creditor  for an account placed  for collection 
by  retailor  in the approximate  amount of $2,597.61. As of the date of this Statement  
of Reasons, the account remains  delinquent.  Applicant denied this debt  on the basis  
he had resolved the delinquency  on March 12, 2025, with his final payment  of $1,136.48.  
He opened the account with the retailer in 2017 and debt arose for an item he purchased  
for himself. At the time  of the  $3,680  purchase,  he had taken out roughly $16,000 in loans  
to cover his other debts.  He explained he “wanted something  nice for  [himself]  to avoid 
being  “depressed staying at the house with a  lot of  debt.”  (GE 2; Tr.  81-83; AE L.)  
 
SOR ¶ 1.h: The delinquent nature of the debts set forth in subparagraphs 1.b.
through 1.g. was due, in part, to your excessive online sports betting. Applicant in 
his Answer denied the allegation, explaining instead that his debts due to his 2023 
divorce. (Answer; AE K.) He started online gambling in 2022 when it became legal in his 
state. He uses the major online gambling platforms. He estimates his largest gambling 
win was a $1,000 of a $10 bet. He estimated he lost a total of around $1,500 throughout 
the year. He acknowledges losing “a couple, 3,000, 5,000 dollars, yes” but he said most 
of the debts alleged are from the divorce and the BV travel policy. In his security clearance 
interview, Applicant told the investigator he stopped making payments because he was 
doing sport gambling on his phone. (GE 2; Tr. 95-101.) He clarified: 
5 
 
 
 
   
     
   
 
    
      
     
     
    
      
    
    
     
 
       
    
  
 
 
     
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
    
  
  
    
      
  
  
See, that's the part that was misconstrued. That's not what I said. I said that 
it came from my divorce. It came from me gambling. It came from my old 
job. (Tr. 99.) 
Applicant acknowledged the accuracy of the section of the interview that provided 
he stated that his sport gambling only lasted about six months, and he controls the sports 
betting and stopped sports betting when his debt got behind and his credit score dropped 
because of past debt. In his response to Government interrogatories, he listed winning 
$2,000 for 2022 and losing $5,000 in 2023 . He listed in his interrogatory response , 
October 2023 for when he stopped making payments on several accounts because of his 
gambling. He subsequently claimed this was “misconstrued” and there were other factors 
not just gambling. He cited his divorce and BV’s travel reimbursement process. (GE 2 at 
12; Tr. 99.) 
After his gambling losses in 2023, Applicant changed to making smaller bets and 
he set gaming limits, which cannot be changed. He also set deposit limits on all his betting 
accounts. He testified: 
And if I was still gambling today, I wouldn't be able to s  how you that my  
debts has  [sic]  went down or that I have it  -- and it's not a crime or it's not  
illegal  to gamble.  (Tr. 115.)  
When asked when was the last month and year was that he placed an online bet 
he replied: 
Okay.  I'm going to be honest.  I  did pl ace a 10-dollar bet last  night and that's  
because the New York Knicks was playing. And that was still ESPN  BET,  
and that's  it.   
During the playoffs, I've been placing bets  during the playoffs, 10-dollar bets  
and stuff like that.  But  nothing major or anything like that. And again, I  don't  
think it's illegal to  gamble or anything like that. The major platforms that  
MGM that gamble, I  close that out. And the one that ESPN I can only  deposit  
10 dollars probably  a day. And that's  the max  that  I can  deposit.  (Tr.  116.)  
He went
 on to acknowledge he was betting in 2024 and discussed his bets for the 2024 
NBA playoffs . He explained how he bet on quarterbacks during the NFL season. He 
estimated he made $2,500 from gambling in 2024. (Tr. 116-124.) 
Applicant argued his financial situation was not bad. He had overcome “ a dark 
stage” in his life. He cited being able to take out a mortgage in 2022 and that his credit in 
2022 “had to be clean by 2022. ” He admitted BV would reimburse him for his rental car 
and hotel but that he “ wasn't doing the right things” with the reimbursements. He 
acknowledged the debts happened in 2023 and he was behind in 2023 with most his 
debts and not making payments but he that he was not notif ied by creditors until 2024. 
(Tr. 83-85, 97.) He states: 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
     
       
 
 
 
  
  
    
   
    
  
   
  
    
    
    
    
   
   
      
 
        
    
    
 
   
   
 
   
 
  
    
     
 
    
[E
]verything  that happened in 2023, I'm paying  for it. I'm paying off the debt.  
But  I don't want  to make that that's  who I am.  I'm  untrustworthy, this and  
that, because I  don't  believe  none of that stuff is true. And it's just something. 
We  all  have mistakes  in our life.  We went through  something, and we
recover from it.  But it's not who I am  at  all. And I am  a trustworthy person  
and that's  not  who  I am. (Tr. 84.)  
 
Appl
icant’s addresses have remained constant. He has not changed his email 
address nor moved from the townhouse he purchased in 2022. The house was purchased 
based on his income. His former spouse was not an authorized user of his credit cards. 
Neither the house nor the marital debts are mentioned in the separation agreement. (Tr. 
86-89.) 
Guideline E   
SOR ¶ 2.a: You falsified material facts on an Electronic Questionnaires for 
Investigations Processing (e-QIP), certified by you on March 24, 2024, in response 
to “Section 13A – Employment Activities” when providing information regarding 
your employment with Company A. In response to “Reason for Leaving Provide the 
reason for leaving the employment activity,” you indicated “Fired because of 
company budget cuts” and thereby deliberately failed to disclose that you had 
been terminated for being unable to e ffectively make the transition to Assistant 
Project Manager and ultimately to the Project Manager Status. Applicant denied 
falsifying his answer to this question on his SCA. In his SOR Answer he stated during 
verbal discussions he was told about company budgets cuts during COVID -19 and was 
given no indication he was being fired because “unable to effectively make the transition 
to Assistant Project Manager and ultimately to the Project Manager Status.” He explained 
he was terminated because that company was in another state, and he was working 
remotely. He said he was told this work environment did not provide the mentoring tools 
to move to another level. (Answer; GE 2 at 5; Tr. 156-158.) 
SOR ¶¶ 2.b - 2.d. These Guideline E allegations stem from Applicant’s failure to 
disclose that information as set forth in SOR ¶¶ 1. b through 1.g, whether he had any 
judgments against him, delinquent accounts greater than 120 days, property repossessed 
or foreclosed, defaulted on any loan, or had an account or credit card suspended, charged 
off, or cancelled for failing to pay as agreed. In his Answer Applicant stated, “When I 
fill[ed] out the [SCA] I did make a mistake in filling it out but after I submitted [it,] I realized 
I had made a mistake and when I spoke with the investigator I did admit to the mistake 
and went over my credit history.” (Answer.) 
During Applicant’s security clearance interview he told the investigator that he was 
doing fine financially. He said he was meeting all his financial obligations. He responded, 
no to the investigator when he was asked whether he was more than 120 days delinquent 
on any debt and whether he was involved in any credit counseling. He also responded, 
no , when he was asked whether he had any judgments or foreclosures against him. After 
7 
 
 
 
  
   
 
   
  
     
     
  
  
       
     
       
   
   
 
 
      
     
 
  
  
   
  
    
     
      
    
  
    
  
        
       
   
    
    
   
 
these
 responses, the investigator confronted him with the numerous debts and judgments 
set forth in SOR ¶ 1. (GE 2 at 9-10, 17-19.) 
SOR ¶ 2.b: You falsified material facts on an Electronic Questionnaires for 
Investigations Processing (e-QIP), certified by you on March 24, 2024, in response 
to “Section 26 – Financial Record Delinquency Involving Enforcement Other than 
previously, have any of the following happened to you? . . . In the last seven (7) 
years, you had a judgment entered against you.” You answered “No” and thereby 
deliberately failed to disclose the judgment set forth in subparagraph 1.b., above. 
Applicant denied the allegation on the basis that he had not been informed of the 
judgment against him and stated he did not get notified about the record of delinquency 
until after he completed his March 24, 2024 SCA. The company filed suit against Applicant 
on November 16, 2023, and a summons was issued for Applicant that same day. He 
acknowledged being served with the summons. (GE 1; GE 2, GE 6; Tr. 50-54.) 
Applicant admitted he was sent “some type of mail” and that it said something to 
the effect of, “we're taking you to court. If you don't pay me, then it's going to get ugly. ” 
He stated he did not know it was a judgment against him. (GE 1, GE 2; Tr. 51-53.) 
SOR ¶ 2. c: Falsified material facts on an Electronic Questionnaires for 
Investigations Processing (e-QIP), certified by you on March 24, 2024, in response 
to “Section 26 – Financial Record Delinquency Involving Routine Accounts Other 
than previously listed, have any of the following happened? In the last seven (7) 
years, have you defaulted on any type of loan? In the last seven (7) years, you had 
bills or debts turned over to a collection agency? In the last seven (7) years, you 
had any account or credit card suspended, charged o ff, or cancelled for failing to 
pay as agreed? . . . In the last seven (7) years, you have been over 120 days 
delinquent on any debt not previously entered? . . . You are currently over 120 days 
delinquent on any debt?” You answered “No” and thereby deliberately failed to 
disclose those debts set forth in subparagraphs 1.b. through 1.g., above. Applicant 
denied the allegation on the basis he was not notified the debts were being processed by 
a collection agency until after his March 24, 2024 SCA. He wrote on page 38 of the 
Government interrogatories that in November 2023, when the creditor informed him via 
email of the delinquency listed in SOR 1.b. He stated when he filled out the SCA he 
“wasn't 100 percent sure about those things” related to a judgment or delinquency. (GE 
1, GE 2; Tr. 53 -54, 109-112.) He testified the reason he thought he could mark “no” on 
the SCA was: 
I thought  that it wasn't  in so much trouble that it was going into  a collection  
because I was  making some payments. I  thought  that I could start this new  
job. I could make s ome money.  I can catch it before it  goes into  collection. 
 
And what had  happened was when I filled out   the application,  they're asking  
me,  are you late? I said no  because I thought  because I  made some 
payments that  120 days would set  to zero and it will go back. But you  have 
to pay back everything that you're late on in order  for that to happen.  (Tr.  
109.)  
8 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
 
 
   
     
      
     
  
 
 
      
  
  
     
    
  
      
 
 
  
   
    
   
     
    
 
     
  
  
   
   
   
 
 
    
   
     
   
  
 
SOR ¶ 2. d: Falsified material facts during a July 24, 2024 interview with an 
authorized investigator for the U.S. Department of Defense when you denied 
defaulting on any loan, having debts turned over to collections, having any 
accounts suspended, charged o ff, or cancelled for failure to pay, or having been 
120 or more days delinquent on any debt. In truth, you failed to disclose the 
delinquent accounts as set forth in subparagraphs 1.b. through 1.g., above . 
Applicant denied the allegation on the basis he was not notified the debts were being 
processed by a collection agency until after his March 24, 2024 SCA. His Answer did not 
address his awareness at the time of the July 2024 security clearance interview. Applicant 
admitted he was making some payments on his delinquent accounts in the hopes that the 
payments would set the 120 days to zero. (Tr. 109; GE 2.) 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
decision. An a dministrative judge must consider all available and reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865 
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant 
has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have 
established for issuing a clearance. 
9 
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
 
 
  
   
     
 
 Once the  G overnment establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial  
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive  ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of  proving a mitigating condition,  
and the burden of disproving it  never shifts to the  Government.  See  ISCR Case No.  02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep.  22,  2005).   
 
 
 
 
       
 
 
   
    
   
  
          
   
 
  
  
    
   
In
itially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The g uidelines 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 15-01253 at 3 
(App. Bd. Apr. 20, 2016). 
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent  
with the national interest to grant or continue  his security clearance.”  ISCR Case No.  01-
20700 at  3 (App. Bd.  Dec. 19, 2002).  “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  Egan, 484 U.S. at 531.   
Analysis  
Guideline F, Financial Considerations  
The security concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's  means, satisfy debts, and meet financial  
obligations may  indicate poor  self-control, lack of judgment, or  
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise  
questions about  an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to  
protect  classified  or  sensitive  information. An  individual  who  is  financially  
overextended is at  greater risk of having to engage in illegal  or otherwise 
questionable acts to generate funds. . . .  
This concern is broader than the possibility that a person might knowingly 
compromise classified information to raise money. It encompasses concerns about a 
person’s self-control, judgment, and other qualities essential to protecting classified 
information. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible, 
unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding classified information. See ISCR 
Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012). 
Applicant’s admissions and the documentary evidence establish the following 
disqualifying conditions under this guideline: AG ¶ 19(a) (inability to satisfy debts); AG ¶ 
19(c) (a history of not meeting financial obligations); AG ¶ 19(f) (failure to pay and Federal 
income tax); and AG ¶ 19(i) (problems caused by gambling). 
10 
 
 
 
 
        
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
        
   
    
     
 
     
      
       
    
    
     
    
   
     
      
 
 
The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 are relevant: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or occ urred under  
such  circumstances that it is unlikely to recur  and does  not cast doubt on the  
individual's  current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;  and  
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial  problem  were largely beyond  
the person's control (e.g., loss of employment, a business downturn,  
unexpected medical emergency, a death, divorce or separation, clear  
victimization by predatory lending practices, or identity theft), and the  
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
(d) the individual  init iated and is adhering to a good- faith effort to repay  
overdue  creditors or otherwise resolve debts; and  
(g) the i
ndividual has made arrangements with the appropriate tax authority 
to file or pay the amount owed and is in compliance with those 
arrangements. 
Applicant has resolved two debts, SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.g, and he has mitigated these 
SOR allegations. His tax issue was a result of settling which parent would take the child 
exemption. He promptly resolved his tax matter. He has repaid the creditor for the debt 
at SOR ¶ 1.g. AG ¶¶ 20(a), 20(b), 20(d), and 20(g) are applicable. 
AG ¶¶ 20(a), 20(b), and 20(d) are not applicable to the remaining SOR allegations. 
Applicant's financial difficulties may have result ed in part because of his marital 
difficulties, which would be a circumstance beyond his control. However, by his own 
admission, he has continued to gamble right up until the day before the hearing. The 
record reflects he accumulated around $40,000 in consumer debt in 2023 and he 
acknowledged his debts were not just from the divorce. While he blamed BV for how the 
company reimbursed him , BV still reimbursed him for his travel. He bears sole 
responsibility for how he elected to use the reimbursement money, which he used for 
gambling and purchasing jewelry for himself. Applicant has not acted responsibly under 
the circumstances, and this casts doubt on his current reliability, trustworthiness, and 
good judgment. 
Further,  his initial e nrollment with a debt relief company  and subsequent  
withdrawal from that  plan does  not demonstrate that Applicant has  adhered to a good-
faith effort to resolve his debts.  His  scattered payments  to reset the delinquency clock  or  
those  payments  after the security clearance  process  has  been initiated  are insufficient.  
An applicant  must initiate and adhere “to a good faith effort  to repay overdue creditors  or  
otherwise resolve debts”  to receive full  credit under  AG ¶  20(d). See  ISCR Case No. 08-
06058 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 21,  2009)  His payment actions are reactive t o the security  
clearance process as evidenced by  most  of the  payment  dates.  He failed to show an  
adequate track  record of  consistent payments  to his  creditors.  AG ¶  20(d)  does not  fully  
11 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
    
   
   
   
 
  
 
   
  
 
       
  
     
    
 
   
   
 
  
 
   
 
   
apply. 
Guideline E,  Personal Conduct  
The security concern for personal conduct is set out in AG ¶ 15, as follows: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or  
unwillingness  to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions  
about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect  
classified information.  Of special interest is any failure to provide  truthful  
and candid answers during the security clearance process or any other  
failure to cooperate with the security clearance process.  
AG ¶ 16 describes conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying. The following disqualifying conditions are applicable: 
(a): deliberate omission, concealment, or falsification of relevant facts from  
any per
sonnel  security questionnaire, personal  history  statement,  or similar  
form  used to conduct investigations, determine employment  qualifications,  
award benefits  or status,  determine national security eligibility or  
trustworthiness, or  award fiduciary responsibilities; and  
(b) deliber
ately providing false or misleading information; or concealing or 
omitting information, concerning relevant facts to an employer, investigator, 
security official, competent medical or mental health professional involved 
in making a recommendation relevant to a national security eligibility 
determination, or other official government representative. 
The following mitigating conditions, under AG ¶ 17, are potentially relevant: 
(a) the individual made prompt, good- faith efforts to correct the omission, 
concealment, or falsification before being confronted with the facts. 
AG ¶ 17(a) is not established for SOR ¶¶ 2. b through 2.d. Applicant deliberately 
and repeatedly lied on his SCA and the evidence reflects that he did not disclose his 
omissions until being confronted by an investigator during his background interview . 
Applicant knew he had judgments and delinquent debts. His explanation that he was 
trying to reset the clock by making a singular payment reflects he knew he had these debt 
problems. Applicant's false statements concerning his financial condition are not “minor,” 
because such statements strike at the heart of the security clearance process. See ISCR 
Case No. 09-01652 (App. Bd. Aug. 8, 2011). An applicant who deliberately fails to give 
full, frank, and candid answers to the government in connection with a security clearance 
investigation or adjudication interferes with the integrity of the industrial security program. 
See ISCR Case No. 01-03132 at 3 (App. Bd. Aug. 8, 2002). Applicant's false statements 
were recent and calculated to give him the most favorable hiring profile for his application 
for a position requiring a security clearance. 
12 
 
 
 
 
   
      
     
  
        
   
   
 
 
   
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
  
 
     
  
   
     
 
 
 
   
 
   
          
 
 
  
   
          
 
SOR ¶ 2. a is mitigated by the testimony and record evidence. Applicant’s 
employment situation occurred during the COVID-19 Pandemic and none of the reasons 
that combined to result in his termination were for misconduct. He discussed the situation 
in more detail with the investigator. He explained he was terminated because the 
company was in another state, and he was working remotely and in this work environment 
he did not have mentoring tools to move to the level the company wanted him to achieve. 
AG ¶ 17(a) is established for SOR ¶ 2.a. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. In applying the whole-
person concept, an administrative judge must evaluate an applicant’s eligibility for a 
security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct and all relevant 
circumstances. An administrative judge should consider the nine adjudicative process 
factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
After weighing the disqualifying and mitigating conditions under Guidelines F and 
E evaluating all the evidence in the context of the whole person, and mindful of my 
obligation to resolve close cases in favor of national security, I conclude Applicant has 
not mitigated the security concerns based on financial considerations or personal 
conduct. 
Formal Findings  
I make the following formal findings on the allegations in the SOR: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:   AGAI
 NST APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a,  1.g  :  
Subparagraphs 1.b-1.f, 1.h:  
For Applicant  
Against Applicant  
Paragraph 2,  Guideline E:  AGAINST APPLICANT  
Subparagraph 2.a:  For  Applicant  
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
      
 
 
 
 
 
Subparagraphs  2.b-2.d:  Against  Applicant  
C
onclusion  
I concl
ude that it is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant 
Applicant eligibility for access to classified information. Clearance is denied. 
Charles C. Hale 
Administrative Judge 
14 