DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00913 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appear ances 
For Government: Troy Nussbaum, Esq. , Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Brittany Forester, Esq. 
06/13/2025 
Decision on Remand 
WESLEY, ROGER C. Administrative Judge 
Based upon a review of the case file, pleadings, and exhibits, Applicant mitigated 
drug involvement and substance abuse and criminal conduct concerns, but did not 
mitigate personal conduct concerns. Eligibility for access to classified information or to 
hold a sensitive position is denied. 
Statement of the Case 
On September 17, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
(DCSA) Consolidated Adjudications Services (CAS) issued a statement of reasons 
(SOR) to Applicant detailing reasons why under the drug involvement and substance 
misuse and personal conduct guidelines the DCSA CAS could not make the preliminary 
affirmative determination of eligibility for granting a security clearance, and 
recommended referral to an administrative judge to determine whether a security 
clearance should be granted, continued, denied, or revoked. 
The action was taken under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960); Defense Industrial Personnel 
Security Clearance Review Program, Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 5220.6 
(January 2, 1992) (Directive); and Security Executive Agent Directive 4, establishing in 
Appendix A the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
 
    
     
 
    
  
     
    
  
    
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
    
  
  
 
  
    
   
  
 
Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AGs), 
effective June 8, 2017. 
Applicant responded to the SOR on October 31, 2024, and requested a hearing. 
The case was assigned to me on December 16, 2024. A hearing was scheduled for 
January 22, 2025, and was heard on the date as scheduled. At the hearing, the 
Government’s case consisted of three exhibits. (GEs 1 -3) Applicant relied on one 
witness (h imself) and 12 exhibits. (AEs A- L) The transcript (Tr.) was received on 
February 3,2025. On March 31, 2025, I issued a decision. 
Issues Raised on Remand  
On June 9, 2025, the Appeal Board remanded the case to afford the judge the 
opportunity to address the errors identified in the decision under Guideline E and 
determine if Applicant has or has not sufficiently mitigated the Government’s remaining 
concerns raised under Guideline E. The Board retained no jurisdiction over the 
remanded decision. 
    Procedural Issues  
Before the close of the hearing, Applicant  and Department Counsel  were afforded  
the opportunity  to brief the availability of  the prompt  prong of MC ¶   17(a) of the personal  
conduct guideline to the facts of the case at bar.  For good cause demonstrated,  
Applicant and Department Counsel were granted 30 days  to supplement the record.  
Within the granted 30- day time period for briefing the issue, Applicant provided a non -
precedential  case citation that  adopted a favorable application of the prompt prong  of 
MC ¶ 17(a) of Guideline E.  See  ISCR Case open No. 22-01736 at 6 (Jan. 18, 2024)  
Neither Applicant  nor Department  Counsel  supplied any Appeal  Board authority.   
Summary  of Pleadings  
Under Guideline H, Applicant allegedly (a) used marijuana with varying frequency 
from a bout August 2017 to about July 2021, to include while granted access to 
classified information ; (b) used psychedelic mushrooms in about April 2019, while 
granted access to classified information; and (c) used cocaine in about August 2022, 
while granted access to classified information. Allegedly Applicant’s use of illegal drugs 
while holding a security clearance presents continuing security concerns. 
Under Guideline E, Applicant allegedly falsified the electronic questionnaires for 
investigations process (e- QIP he completed I March 2018 by omitting his past use of 
illegal drugs. Allegedly, Applicant repeated his omissions of his past use of illegal drugs 
in the e-QIP he completed in January 2023. 
2 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
 
  
    
 
 
   
 
   
    
 
 
 
     
  
   
 
          
 
     
 
    
  
 
    
  
  
     
   
 
    
   
  
    
  
 
 
    
   
       
   
   
   
In his response to the SOR, Applicant admitted t he allegations with explanations. 
He claimed he reported his past drug use during his past background investigation and 
has taken remedial actions to ensure it never happens again. He further claimed that he 
was honest and forthcoming about his past drug use and his failure to accurately report 
his drug use on his 2018 and 2023 e-QIPs. 
Allegations covered by Guideline H are cross alleged under Guideline J. These 
allegations incorporate the allegations covered by SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.c. and cover the same 
factual allegations. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 27-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security 
clearance. The admitted allegations are incorporated and adopted as r elevant and 
material findings. Additional findings follow. 
Background         
Applicant never married and has no children. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 17) He earned a high 
school diploma in May 2016 and two bachelor’s degrees in May 2020: one in 
mechanical engineering and one in aerospace engineering. (GEs 1-2 ; Tr. 16 -17) He 
reported no military service. 
Since January 2023, Applicant has been employed by his current employer as an 
engineer. (GE 1 ; Tr. 17 ) Between June 2020 and January 2023, he was employed by 
the same employer in other work capacities. (GE 1; Tr. 17- 18) Between June 2018 and 
June 20 19 (while in college), he worked during the summer months for another 
employer as a summer intern. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 18-19) 
Applicant reported recurrent periods of unemployment in 2018- 2019, 2017-2018, 
and 2015- 2016, while in college . Applicant has held a security clearance since June 
2018. (GE 1 ; Tr. 19 ) He had access to classified information during the summer of 
2018, the summer of 2019, and after starting work for his current employer. (GEs 1- 2; 
Tr. 18-19) Currently, Applicant’s security clearance is under suspension. (Tr. 19) 
Applicant’s  drug history  
Between August 2017 and July 2021, Applicant used marijuana with varying 
frequency at parties and in social gatherings while in college. (GEs 1-3; Tr. 21) He 
characterized his use as experimental (no more than four times) with college friends. 
(GE 3; Tr. 20) He relied on his friends for providing the marijuana and never purchased 
any himself. The marijuana he used never affected him and had no known impact on his 
personality, judgment, reliability or ability to hold a confidence. (GE 3) 
3 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
 
 
   
    
  
    
    
 
   
     
      
  
 
     
    
 
   
 
 
 
    
  
 
   
    
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
      
   
  
 
 
Applicant tried psychedelic mushrooms on one occasion in April 2019 while in 
college. (GE 3; Tr. 22)  He tried the psychedelic mushrooms for experimental purposes 
and only used them on one occasion. They were given to him by a college friend, and 
he never purchased any on his own. The psychedelic mushrooms had no impact on his 
work, finances, school, home, family, or friends. (GE 3; Tr. 22) 
Applicant experimented with cocaine as well in August 2022 while a full -time 
employee of his current employer. (GE 3; Tr. 22) Like the other drugs he tried, they 
were gifted to him by a friend, and he never purchased any  himself. (GE 3; Tr. 23)  He 
only used the cocaine on one occasion to satisfy his curiosity. (Tr. 22, 37-38) 
Beginning in 2018, and at all relevant times of his experimenting with illegal 
drugs, Applicant had approved access to classified information. (Tr. 23, 37 -38) He 
maintained his access to classified information until March 2023 and was aware of his 
employer’s anti-drug policy. (Tr. 24, 37-39, 44) While employed by his current employer 
he completed workplace training in June 2020 and annually on his employer’s zero 
tolerance anti-drug policies. (Tr. 44) 
From his experiences in experimenting with illegal drugs , Applicant learned 
important lessons about making smarter decisions about the use of drugs that are 
banned by federal law . (Tr. 24 -25) He was never ordered or advised to seek drug 
counseling and claims no addictive problems with illegal drugs. All of his drug use 
occurred while he was under the influence of alcohol. (Tr. 46) 
Recent non-randomized drug tests produced negative results for all illegal drugs . 
(AEs D and L; Tr. 25) Along with other awards and a certificate of recognition from his 
employer, Applicant earned a behavioral modification course certificate after completing 
the course. (AE F) 
Applicant’s stated  reason for trying illegal drugs was curiosity and a desire to  
experiment.  (GE 3; Tr.  20-21) In March 2023 (six  months  before his personal subject  
interview), Applicant reported all of his illegal  drug use to his  lead and manager. (GE 3; 
Tr. 33-35) He has since abstained from  all illegal  drug use. Corroborating his expressed  
intention to avert any  use of illegal drugs in  the future, Applicant  has executed both  a  
sworn declaration and a signed statement  not to use illegal drugs in the future. (AEs  B-
C)  
Allegations covered by Guideline H are cross alleged under Guideline J and 
incorporate the same facts covering Applicant’s use of illegal drugs in violation of 
federal law. The facts covering Applicant’s use of illegal drugs while holding a security 
clearance are incorporated by reference. 
4 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
     
   
   
 
    
   
   
   
      
     
  
     
 
     
  
   
  
  
 
  
   
   
     
      
      
  
 
 
     
    
  
     
   
       
    
     
 
Applicant’s E-QIP  omissions  
Asked to complete an e- QIP in March 2018, Applicant failed to disclose his 
experimental use of marijuana in 2017 and 2018. (GEs 1- 2) In a second e- QIP he 
completed in January 2023, he again failed to disclose his past use of illegal drugs: in 
this case his experimental use of marijuana, psychedelic mushrooms, and cocaine. 
Acknowledging his deliberate omissions out of his concern of the potential impact of his 
full disclosure on his security clearance, Applicant made the deliberate decision to 
withhold any information about his past drug use in his 2018 e-QIP. (GE 3) 
When asked to complete a second e- QIP in January 2 023, Applicant repeated 
his omissions of his past use of illegal drugs for the same reasons he withheld his drug 
use information in the first e-QIP he completed. (GEs 1 -2) Asked why he declined 
disclosure of his past drug use in his second e- QIP, he responded that it was because 
he could get away with it after avoiding any consequences from his 2018 omission. (Tr. 
59-60) Considering all of the circumstances surrounding his e-QIP omissions of his past 
illegal drug use, inferences of knowing and willful omission of material facts about his 
use of illegal drugs are warranted. 
Following his completion of his 2023 e-QIP, Applicant disclosed his past drug use 
to his past design lead and supervisor. (Tr. 33- 34) Whether his supervisor passed on 
the information to his company’s facility security officer (FSO) or others in his chain of 
command is unclear. What is known is that Applicant w as disciplined by his employer 
for falsifying his 2023 e-QIP. (Tr. 32) 
In March 2023 (three months after completing his second e- QIP), Applicant was 
asked to meet an investigator from the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to 
follow up on the information he provided in his 2023 e-QIP. (GE 3) When asked in his 
personal subject interview (PSI) by the OPM investigator about any past drug use , 
Applicant provided full and accurate accounts of his drug use history without any 
evidence of confrontation. (GE 3) He did so out of feelings of guilt over his previous 
omissions of his past drug use. (Tr. 28) 
Whether concerns over the possibilities of his being polygraphed played any role 
in his decision to come clean about hi s past drug use is unproven. (Tr. 54-56) When he 
was initially asked by Department Counsel at hearing whether the possibility of having 
to do a polygraph was on his radar, he replied that “I don’t recall: I don’t recall thinking 
about a polygraph, whether or not I would do one.” (Tr. 54) Only in a follow-up question 
from Department Counsel did he clarify that “I can’t tell when or when they won’t do a 
polygraph.” (Tr. 54) While Applicant’s professed lack of recall of having pre- PSI 
polygraph concerns opens his motives for questioning about his coming clean on his 
past drug use,, it is not enough to warrant any discrete findings on the issue, 
5 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
 
 
    
    
 
   
   
  
  
  
                                                      
 
 
 
     
     
   
   
    
     
       
 
              
   
   
  
   
 
   
 
  
     
 
  
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
 
Endorsements and awards  
Applicant is well- regarded by his managers and former design lead and 
supervisor who are familiar with his current security clearance investigation. (AE E ; Tr. 
33-34) Applicant’s performance evaluations for the 2023 rating period earned him solid 
completion marks in all rated categories. (AE G) Over the course of the past three 
years, Applicant has received numerous awards of recognition for his contributions to 
his design team’s missions. (AE H) His awards include recognition awards for reshaping 
operations, strengthening our foundation, and evolving our culture. 
        Po
licies  
B
y virtue of the jurisprudential principles recognized by the U.S. Supreme Court in 
Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988), “no one has a ‘right’ to a 
security clearance.” As Commander in Chief, “the President has the authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual 
is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. Access eligibility 
to view and work with classified information may only be granted “upon a finding that it is 
clearly consistent with the national interest to do so. ” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the a pplicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge’ s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial , and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The AGs list guidelines to be considered by judges in the decision- making 
process covering DOHA cases. These AG guidelines take into account factors that 
could create a potential conflict of interest for the individual applicant, as well as 
considerations that could affect the individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified information. 
The AG guidelines include conditions that could raise a security concern and 
may be disqualifying (disqualifying conditions), if any, and all of the conditions that could 
mitigate security concerns, if any. These guidelines must be considered before deciding 
whether or not a security clearance should be granted, continued, or denied. Although, 
the guidelines do not require judges to place exclusive reliance on the enumerated 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in the guidelines in arriving at a decision. 
6 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
     
  
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
    
  
    
   
    
 
 
 
  
   
    
 
   
In addition to the relevant AGs, judges must take into account the pertinent 
considerations for assessing extenuation and mitigation set forth in ¶ 2(a) of the AGs, 
which are intended to assist the judges in reaching a fair and impartial, commonsense 
decision based on a careful consideration of the pertinent guidelines within the context 
of the whole person. The adjudicative process is designed to examine a sufficient period 
of an applicant’s life to enable predictive judgments to be made about whether the 
applicant is an acceptable security risk. 
When evaluating an applicant’s conduct, the relevant guidelines are to be 
considered together with the following ¶ 2(d) factor s: ( 1) the nature, extent, and 
seriousness of the conduct; (2) the circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include 
knowledgeable participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to which 
participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation and other 
permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation of the conduct; (8) the potential for 
pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the likelihood of continuation or 
recurrence. 
Viewing the issues raised and evidence as a whole, the following individual 
guidelines are pertinent herein: 
Drug Involvement  and Substance Abuse  
The Concern: The illegal use of controlled substances, to include 
the misuse of prescription drugs, and the use of other substances that 
cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because  such behavior 
may lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, 
rules, and regulations. Controlled substance means any “controlled 
substance” as defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic 
term adopted in this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed 
above. 
Personal Conduct  
The Concern: Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of 
candor, dishonesty, or unwillingness to comply with rules and 
regulations can raise questions about an individual’s reliability, and 
trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or sensitive information. 
Of special interest is any failure to cooperate or provide truthful and 
7 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
 
 
        
 
                                       
    
  
  
    
 
                                        
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
    
  
    
 
    
      
 
     
   
     
        
   
     
 
  
       
candid answers during national security investigative or adjudicative 
processes .  .  . AG ¶ 
Criminal Conduct  
The Concern: Criminal activity creates doubt about a person’s 
judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness. By its very nature, it calls 
into question a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, 
rules, and regulations. AG ¶ 30. 
   Burdens of Proof  
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified 
information. 
Such clearance eligibility decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation a bout potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. Clearance decisions must be “ in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the a pplicant concerned.” See Exec. 
Or. 10865 § 7. See also Exec. Or. 12968 (Aug. 2, 1995), § 3.1. 
Initially, the  G overnment must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in  
the per sonal  or professional history of  the a pplicant that may disqualify the  a pplicant  
from being eligible for  access  to classified information. The  Government has  the burden  
of establishing controverted facts  alleged in the SOR.  See  Egan, 484 U.S.  at 531.   
“Substantial evidence”  is  “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance. ”   See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. ,  36 F.3d 375, 380 (4
th  Cir. 1994). The guidelines  
presume a nexus or  rational connection between proven conduct under any of the  
criteria listed t herein and an  applicant’s security suitability.  See  ISCR Case No.  95-0611 
at 2 (App. Bd. May 2, 1996).   
O
nce the Government establishes a disqualifying condition by substantial 
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it 
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue his [or her] security 
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01-20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). 
The burden of disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the Government. 
See ISCR Case No. 02 -31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance 
8 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
 
     
     
 
 
   
 
   
 
  
 
 
   
  
    
     
    
   
  
  
 
   
   
 
  
   
   
   
 
   
    
     
   
   
   
    
    
 
    
  
    
  
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials. ” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; 
see AG ¶ 2(b). 
Analysis  
Security concerns are raised over Applicant’s experimentation with illegal drugs 
(marijuana, psychedelic mushrooms, and cocaine over a period of several years (2017 
through 2022) while holding a security clearance. Additional concerns are raised over 
his omissions of his drug use in two e- QIPs he completed in 2018 and 2023, 
respectively. 
Drug Involvement and  Substance  Misuse and Criminal  Conduct concerns  
Applicant’s admissions to his involvement with multiple illegal drugs raise security 
concerns over risks of recurrence as well as judgment issues. On the strength of the 
evidence presented, t hree disqualifying conditions (DCs) of the AGs for drug 
involvement and substance misuse apply to Applicant’s situation: DC ¶¶ 25(a), ”any 
substance misuse” ; 25(c), “illegal possession of a controlled substance, including 
cultivation, processing, manufacture, purchase, sale, or distribution; or possession of 
Illegal drugs or drug paraphernalia”; and 25(f), “any illegal drug use while granted 
access to classified information or holding a sensitive position.” 
Allegations covered by Guideline H are cross alleged under Guideline J . 
Applicable DCs for criminal conduct are DC ¶¶  31(a), “a pattern o minor offenses, any 
one o which on its own would be unlikely to affect a national security eligibility decision, 
but which in combination cast doubt on the individual’s judgment, reliability, or 
trustworthiness” and 31(b), “evidence (including, but not limited to, a credible allegation, 
an admission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of whether 
the individual was formally charged, prosecuted, or convicted.” 
To his credit, Applicant has committed to abandoning all use and involvement 
with illegal drugs and has remained abstinent from illegal drugs for almost three years. 
Currently, he exhibits no visible signs or indications of succumbing to any risks or 
pressures he might encounter to return to illegal drug use and involvement in the 
foreseeable future. His use of illegal drugs in college never reached more than 
experimental levels with friends in social situations, and he is regularly tested for any 
resumption possibilities. None of his non- randomized tests have yielded any positive 
results to date. 
Applicable mitigating conditions (MCs) for raised Guideline H concerns are as 
follows: MC ¶¶ 26(a), “the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or 
happened under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or does not cast doubt on 
the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment,” and 26(b), “the 
9 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
 
  
   
    
 
                 
 
 
       
 
   
   
 
    
  
    
   
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
 
   
 
  
   
   
  
  
 
  
   
   
 
individual acknowledges his or her drug involvement and substance misuse, provides 
evidence of actions taken to overcome the problem, and has established a pattern of 
abstinence,” including, but not limited to: 
(1)  disassociation from drug-us
 ing associates  and contacts;  
(2)  changing or avoiding the environment where  dr ugs were used, and  
(3)  providing a signed statement  of i ntent to abstain from  all drug involvement  
and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future involvement or  
misuse  is grounds for revocation of national security  eligibility.  
MCs avai
lable to Applicant under Guideline J are ¶ 32(a), “so much time has 
elapsed since the criminal behavior happened, or it happened under such unusual 
circumstances, that it is unlikely to recur and does not cast doubt on the individual’s 
reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment,” applies. 
Applicant’s progress to date in avoiding all illegal drugs and persons who use 
these drugs is notable. While his past use of illegal drugs while holding a security 
clearance is troubling, he has learned important  lessons from his mistakes and can be 
expected to abstain from illegal drugs in the foreseeable future 
Personal  Conduct concerns  
Applicable to Applicant’s e- QIP omissions is DC ¶ 16(a), “deliberate omission, 
concealment, or falsification of relevant facts from any personnel security questionnaire, 
personal history statement, or similar form used to conduct investigations, determine 
employment qualifications, award benefits or status, determine national security 
eligibility or trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities.” 
Voluntary disclosures of adverse information are always encouraged. Without 
any evidence of confronting him with information pertaining to his e- QIP omissions by 
the interviewing OPM investigator in his ensuing 2023 PSI, Applicant’s documented 
voluntary corrections of his omissions when asked about his past use of marijuana, 
entitle him to partial mitigation benefits of MC 17(a), “the individual made prompt, good 
faith efforts to correct the omission, concealment, or falsification before being 
confronted with the facts,” 
What continues to be troubling about Applicant’s belated disclosures of his past 
drug use is the timing of his disclosures. With over three years of unbroken employment 
with his current employer (2020-2023) and over two years of employment with his 
previous employer (2017-2019), he had plenty of opportunities to correct his omissions 
10 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
 
  
  
 
     
  
      
    
   
 
     
   
   
  
 
     
     
   
   
    
 
   
 
     
      
     
  
   
  
     
     
 
 
 
    
     
   
  
 
     
   
  
 
of marijuana use in his 2018 e- QIP but declined to do so out of concern for his security 
clearance. 
While Applicant’s PSI disclosures were made less than three months from the 
time he completed his January 2023 e-QIP, over five years had elapsed since his earlier 
completion of an e-QIP in March 2018. Challenging is the reconciling of this five-year 
gap with an even stretched meaning of the prompt prong in MC ¶ 17 (a). With no bright 
line definitions of the term “prompt” to work with, the Appeal Board recently found an 
applicant’s two-month delay in making corrections to be reasonable under all of the 
circumstances considered. See ISCR Case No. 22-02601 at 5 (App. Bd. Feb. 22, 2024). 
So, while Applicant is entitled to credit for making voluntary good- faith disclosures of his 
past drug use in his PSI, issues remain as to whether his disclosures satisfy the 
“prompt” prong of MC  ¶ 17(a). 
In previous Appeal Board decisions , the Board has drawn more restrictive 
definitions of the term “prompt” in situations where the applicant was an FSO who was 
in a position to know and respect the importance and urgency of making timely 
disclosures. Compare  DISCR Case No. 93 -1390 at 5- 7 (App. Bd. Jan. 27, 1995) And, 
clearly the circumstances in this 1995 Appeal Board decision are distinguishable from 
the facts in Applicant’s case. Unlike in the 1995 decision, Applicant was not a n facility 
clearance officer (FSO) with a clearance. 
Even with a more expansive construction of the “prompt” prong of MC ¶ 17(a) by 
the Appeal Board, Applicant’s cumulative delays of over five years (i.e., January 2018 
through March 2023) to make the right decision to voluntarily disclose his past use of 
illegal drugs came way too late to satisfy the Appeal Board’s reasonable time 
interpretations of the prompt prong of MC ¶ 17(a). Even though a reasonable time 
interpretation of the prompt prong can be useful in incentivizing applicants to come 
forward voluntarily without fear of being too late for credit , time allowances must have 
limits in the interest of ensuring t he expedit ious requirements of security clearance 
investigations. 
Whole-person assessment  
From a whole- person perspective, Applicant has not established enough 
independent probative evidence of his overall, trustworthiness, reliability, and good 
judgment required of those who seek eligibility to hold a security clearance or sensitive 
position. While he is deserving of considerable credit for the contributions he has made 
to his previous employer as a Summer intern while in college and as a prospering 
engineer with his current employer, he has not produced enough positive 
reinforcements of his overall honesty and trustworthiness to facilitate safe predictions he 
is at no risk of recurrent candor lapses. 
11 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
 
  
  
  
   
    
    
     
     
 
 
 
  
      
       
   
    
                        
                   
                
 
                            
 
                   
 
                                             
                
               
 
     
      
    
 
 
 
   
 
__________________________ 
Considering the record as a whol e and granting due weight to Applicant’s 
positive commitments to abstinence, there is sufficient probative evidence of 
sustainable mitigation in the record to make safe , predictable judgments about 
Applicant’s ability to avoid illegal drugs in the foreseeable future. However, taking into 
account all of the facts and circumstances surrounding Applicant’ s delayed efforts in 
making his voluntary, good- faith disclosures of his past illegal drug use ( insufficient to 
satisfy the prompt prong of MC ¶ 17(a)), he does not mitigate the personal conduct 
concerns covered by SOR ¶¶ 2.a-2-b. 
 I have carefully  applied the law, as set  forth in Department of Navy  v. Egan,  484  
U.S. 518 (1988) , Exec. Or. 10865, the Directive, and the AGs , to  the facts and  
circumstances in the context of the whole person,  I  conclude drug involvement  and  
substance misuse  and criminal conduct  security concerns are mitigated.  Personal  
conduct  security concerns are  not  mitigated.  Eligibility for  access to classified  
information  is  denied.  
Formal Findings  
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
  FOR  APPLICANT  
     For  Applicant  
GUIDELINE  H ( DRUG INVOLVEMENT):  
    Subparagraphs  1.a-1.c:    
  GUIDELINE E: (PERSONAL CONDUCT):        AGAINST APPLICANT  
    
Subparagraphs 2.a-2.b:               
   GUIDELINE J (CRIMINAL CONDUCT):   
      Subparagraph 3.a:    
       Against A pplicant  
    FOR APPLICANT  
       For applicant  
   
Conclusion  
In l
ight of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance.  Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Roger C. Wesley 
Administrative Judge 
12 