 
 
                                                                                                                    
          
           
             
 
 
 
    
  
               
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
     
 
 
 
   
    
 
  
   
   
    
  
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPART MENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00928 
) 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: 
Aubrey M. De Angelis., Esquire, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: 
Pro se 
05/21/2025 
Decision 
GLENDON, John Bayard, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant has not mitigated the security concerns raised under Guideline G 
(Alcohol Consumption) and Guideline J (Criminal Conduct). National security eligibility for 
access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a Questionnaire for National Security Positions on August 22, 
2023 (Questionnaire). On September 17 , 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and 
Security Agency (DCSA) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing 
security concerns under Guidelines G and J. The action was taken under Executive Order 
10865, Safeguarding Classified Information Within Industry (February 20, 1960), as 
amended; Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel 
Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the 
adjudicative guidelines (AG) effective within DoD after June 8, 2017. 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
     
    
   
 
 
   
    
     
 
   
      
   
  
     
     
      
    
    
 
   
  
     
  
    
      
     
     
  
   
   
 
         
     
           
  
    
 
    
    
    
      
  
Applicant responded to the SOR allegations on October 2, 2024 (Answer) and 
requested a hearing before an administrative judge from the Defense Office of Hearings 
and Appeals (DOHA). Department Counsel was prepared to proceed on January 29, 
2025. The case was assigned to me on February 10, 2025. DOHA sent Applicant a Notice 
of Hearing on March 10, 2025, scheduling the case to be heard via Microsoft Teams video 
teleconference on April 4, 2025. 
I convened the hearing as scheduled. Department Counsel offered six documents 
marked as Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 6. Applicant waived any objections to GE 
1 and GE 3-6. GE 2 is an unadopted Report of Investigation summarizing Applicant’s 
January 4, 2024 security interview prepared by a U.S. Government investigator. Applicant 
was advised at the hearing of her right to object to the admission of the document on the 
ground that summary is unauthenticated by a Government witness. She asked for time 
to review the proposed exhibit after the hearing before deciding whether to object or to 
waive any objections to it. Applicant testified but did not submit any document ary 
evidence at the hearing. I left the record open until April 18, 2025, to give h er the 
opportunity to supplement the record and to decide if she objected to GE 2. She submitted 
a summary and six other documents in a timely manner . I marked the summary as 
Applicant Exhibit (AE) A and the six documents as AE B through G . In AE A, Applicant 
indicated that she waived any objection to GE 2. (Tr. at 10-14.) 
On April 21, 2025, Department Counsel responded to Applicant’s post -hearing 
submission. She raised no objection to Applicant’s exhibits and submitted copies of three 
state statutes in response to one of Applicant’s exhibits (AE F). On April 25, 2025, I asked 
Applicant in an email to clarify that the document she was waiving any objection to was, 
in fact, GE 2, and whether she had any comments on the three statutes, which I have 
marked as Administrative Notice (AN) I through III. I asked for her to respond by April 30, 
2025. She declined to make any further comments. The record closed on April 30, 2025. 
AE A through G and GE 1 through 6 are admitted into the record without objection. I have 
also admitted into the record AN I through III for administrative notice purposes. DOHA 
received the transcript of the hearing (Tr.) on April 11, 2025. (Tr. at 10-14, 58-59.) 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 36 years old. She received a bachelor’s degree in 2010. She has been 
employed by a U.S. Government contractor since September 2017. She was promoted 
to manager in June 2023 and relocated from State A to State B. In August 2023, Applicant 
submitted a security clearance application for the first time. She is not married and has 
no children. (Tr. at 16, 18; GE 1 at 5, 9-11, 16-17, 28.) 
The Government alleged in the SOR that Applicant is ineligible for a security 
clearance due to her having been arrested and convicted on three occasions in the last 
ten years. In the Answer, Applicant admitted the allegations and added some comments 
in mitigation. I find the following facts as set forth in the pleadings, developed at the 
hearing, and detailed in the documentary record. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
    
  
 
       
      
  
   
   
    
   
   
    
     
        
 
      
     
   
  
    
    
    
    
  
    
     
     
     
    
     
           
 
      
     
   
   
     
 
      
    
   
 
Paragraph 1, Guideline  G  (Alcohol Consumption)  
Under this guideline, the Government alleged that Applicant has been arrested in 
2015, 2016, and 2021, charged with Driving While Impaired (DWI) or the equivalent, and 
convicted of the offenses. 
SOR ¶ 1.a. October 31, 2021 Arrest. At about 9:50 pm, Applicant was involved in 
a collision with a fire department vehicle at an intersection in State A. After failing standard 
field-sobriety tests and refusing to take a breath test to measure her blood-alcohol content 
(BAC), she was arrested and charged with DWI - First Offense and Failure to Exercise 
Due Care to Avoid Colliding with Emergency Vehicle. Applicant testified at the DOHA 
hearing that her vehicle was “t-boned” at an intersection by a fire department vehicle. The 
police accident report indicates that the fire department vehicle had its lights and sirens 
activated at the time. She suffered a “bad concussion.” At her booking, she was charged 
with six other violations , including Refusal to Take Breath Test . In court, the prosecutor 
increased the DWI-First Offense charge to DWI with a P revious Conviction with Ten 
Years (DWI 10), a felony. (Tr. at 23; GE 3 at 11, 13; GE 4 at 1; AE F at 1-2.) 
Applicant entered a diversion program to avoid being c onvicted of the felony 
charge. She was conditionally discharged in a one-year alcohol abuse program and was 
ordered to be assessed for alcohol abuse and to participate in supervised probation for 
one year. Her probation began on January 25, 2022, and was completed on January 25, 
2023. She was required to meet with her probation officer once a week. For six months, 
she had to wear a brac elet that continuously measured her BAC and an ankle monitor 
and was prohibited from drinking alcohol . Applicant was also fined $5,000 , and her 
driver’s license was revoked for one year. Upon the completion of her probation and the 
diversion program, Applicant entered a plea of guilty to DWI -First Offense and was 
formally convicted. She had two alcohol assessments while in State A . At the DOHA 
hearing, she asserts that no treatment was recommended. She testified that she 
experienced difficulties obtaining a required final alcohol abuse assessment before she 
relocated to State B in June 2023 and has only recently found an assessment program in 
State B acceptable to State A. As a result, she has not been able to have her driver’s 
license reinstated in State A or to qualify for a license in State B. She does not own a 
motor vehicle and does not drive. (Tr. at 23, 27-33; GE 3 at 10-13; GE 4 at 1-2.) 
Applicant’s defense attorney in the DWI 10 felony prosecution provided a letter, 
addressing two factual issues that arose at the DOHA hearing and a legal issue involving 
Applicant’s refusal to take a breath test to measure her BAC. On the accident, he asserted 
that the prosecutor could not produce objective evidence to establish that the emergency 
vehicle that hit Applicant’s car had lights and sirens on. He also wrote that after Applicant’s 
completion of one year of intensive supervised probation, the charges against her were 
reduced to one count of misdemeanor DWI . The attorney wrote that a driver’s refusal to 
take a BAC test in State A is not a criminal offense and is simply addressed by the state 
department of motor vehicles as a civil administrative matter. In response to the attorney’s 
assertions, Department Counsel submitted an official document about State’s A laws, 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
     
   
     
 
    
      
     
      
   
    
    
 
   
    
     
   
       
   
      
  
 
         
 
    
  
     
  
 
 
      
    
  
    
  
 
     
   
     
  
     
     
    
     
     
 
inter alia, on refusals to take BAC test s. The document reflects that a driver’s refusal to 
submit to a BAC test is punishable with a civil penalty of up to $500 and the revocation of 
the driver’s license for at least one year. (Tr. at 35-37; AN I; AE F at 2.) 
SOR ¶ 1. b. January 9, 2016 Arrest. About eight months after the DUI arrest 
described in SOR ¶ 1.c, below, Applicant was stopped by police in State A at about 11:30 
pm for driving 50 MPH in a 30 MPH zone and making an unsafe lane change into 
oncoming traffic. She failed several field sobriety tests and then refused to take a breath 
test. The officer wrote in his report that he warned Applicant that her failure to take a 
breath test would result in her arrest and a separate charge. She understood the 
consequences of her failure to comply with the officer’s instructions and again refused. 
Applicant signed a form advising her that her refusal to take the breath test would result 
in the immediate suspension of her driver’s license and the subsequent revocation of her 
license. She was charged with violating State A’s law by refusing to take a breath test , 
DWI – First Offense, and five other charges. The police issued to her a ticket listing her 
refusal to take a breath test as a traffic infraction, as opposed to a misdemeanor or a 
felony. Police records state that her attitude at th e time of her stop and arrest was 
“argumentative, combative, and uncooperative.” At the DOHA hearing, Applicant claimed 
she did not recall behaving in this manner with the police. She advised the officer that she 
only had two drinks, a martini and a beer, prior to driving. The police report states that 
she advised the police officer that she was driving from her father’s residence to her 
home. (Tr. at 24, 39; GE 3 at 9-10; GE 5 at 1-2, 8, 19.) 
At the DOHA hearing, Applicant admitted that she was intoxicated and that she 
refused to take a breath test. She claimed she was driving to her father’s residence after 
spending time with her then- partner at a bar. She said it was “a very bad night.” She 
further claimed that she thought she had the right to refuse to take the breath test. (Tr. at 
21-23, 39-40.) 
On June 21, 2016, Applicant pleaded guilty to DUI-First Offense, a misdemeanor. 
She was sentenced to take an alcohol awareness class , and her driver’s license was 
suspended for six months. She was also required to install an interlock device in her 
vehicle for six months. On her own initiative, she stopped drinking alcohol for a couple of 
years. (Tr. at 21-22, 26.) 
SOR ¶ 1.c. May 29, 2015 Arrest. At about 4:00 am, Applicant was arrested in State 
C while on vacation and charged with DUI. The police pulled her over after she stopped 
her rental vehicle beyond the “stop bar” in an intersection with a red traffic signal. She 
failed standardized field sobriety tests. Applicant refused to take a breath test. The traffic 
citation issued to Applicant states that her driver’s license was surrendered at the time of 
the arrest and her driving privileges were suspended for one year due to her refusal to 
take a breath test. At the DOHA hearing, she claimed that she was “probably” not over 
the legal limit. On October 27, 2016, she was sentenced to 12 months of probation and 
fined $1,000. I take administrative notice of the statutes of State C admitted into the record 
for that purpose. Under these statutes, a person who refuses to consent to a breath test 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
    
     
  
 
 
     
      
  
 
 
 
 
     
   
    
       
 
  
   
  
    
   
   
 
 
to measure his or her BAC is subject to additional criminal penalties, depending on the 
individual’s prior history of refusing a breath test. (Tr, at 19-20; GE 3 at 6; GE 6 at 1 -2; 
AN II, AN III.) 
Paragraph 2, Guideline  J  (Criminal Conduct)  
Under this guideline, the Government has cross-alleged the three allegations set 
forth above under Guideline G. See findings under subparagraphs 1.a, 1.b, and 1.c, 
above. 
Mitigation  
With respect to her current alcohol consumption,  Applicant claims that  alcohol is  
not really a part of her life. She last had a drink a month prior to the  DOHA  hearing. She 
described her drinking as very infrequent. She was never required by the court  or  her  
probation officer to attend AA and never felt  a need to do so.  She  admitted  it has taken  
awhile for her  to learn that she cannot drive a car after drinking alcohol. She testified that  
she  understands alcohol consumption has led her to make bad decisions with serious  
consequences.  She submitted an  alcohol  assessment, dated February  20,  2025,  
completed in State C . The assessment  concluded that  she met the criteria for Alcohol  
Use Disorder  with no diagnosis.  The  counselor noted that Applicant has completed  an 
alcohol and drug education  program with a state certified program  and that  she “takes full  
responsibility for her  behavior.”  In his Substance Use Risk Evaluation, the counselor  
provided no response to a question asking about  details of prior driving arrests or other  
criminal records. He  also provided  a code that indicated she had “no priors.”  (Tr.  at 32-
33; AE G.)  
Applicant argues that she has had “a really positive career” with her company. She 
has received excellent reviews from her supervisors and has strong working relationships 
with her co- workers. She has been awarded several promotions, most recently to a 
manager position about one year ago. (Tr. at 17-18.) 
A co -worker of Applicant testified as a character witness. He has worked for 
Applicant’s employer for a number of years, initially in State A with Applicant until he 
relocated in 2019 to another company facility. He now works with her again on the same 
team, though in a different state. He praised her trustworthiness and judgment. He has 
limited knowledge of her 2021 DWI and accident and no awareness of her 2016 and 2015 
alcohol-related arrests. (Tr. at 42-51.) 
After  the hearing,  Applicant submitted two character references.  A longtime ,  
personal friend  wrote en thusiastically about Applicant ’s  professional  reliability and  
“exceptional commitment  to her professional development.”  The other  reference is a co-
worker who has known Applicant since they both started working for their employer  in  
2017.  The second writer  praised Applicant’s  “diligent  work  ethic and sense of  detail.”  
Neither reference made any comments suggesting familiarity with Applicant’s history  of  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
     
    
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
  
  
   
    
 
  
  
  
  
    
three arrests for driving while intoxicated. The record evidence about her current alcohol 
consumption is quite limited. (AE B; AE G.) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for national security eligibility, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines (AG) list 
potentially disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in 
evaluating an applicant’s national security eligibility. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. The entire 
process is a conscientious scrutiny of applicable guidelines in the context of a number of 
variables known as the whole- person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires, “Any doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. I have not drawn inferences based on mere speculation or 
conjecture. 
Directive ¶ E3.1.14 requires the Government to present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, “The applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel, and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable clearance decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants national 
security eligibility. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk the 
applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or safeguard classifi ed 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as 
to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified or sensitive information. 
Finally, as emphasized in Section 7 of Executive Order 10865, “Any determination under 
this order adverse to an applicant shall be a determination in terms of the national interest 
and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
   
   
  
      
     
 
 
 
See also Executive Order 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information.) 
Analysis  
Paragraph 1,  Guideline G (Alcohol Consumption)   
The security concerns relating to the guideline for alcohol consumption are set out 
in AG ¶ 21, which states: 
Excessive alcohol consumption often leads  to the exercise of  questionable  
judgment or the failure to control impulses and can raise questions about  
an individual’s reliability and trustworthiness.  
AG ¶ 22 describes seven conditions that could raise security concerns. The 
following two conditions have possible application to the facts of this case and ma y be 
disqualifying: 
(a) alcohol-r
elated incidents  away from work, such as  driving while under  
the influence, fighting,  child or spouse abuse,  disturbing the peace, or other  
incidents  of concern, regardless  of the frequency of the individual’s alcohol  
use or  whether the i ndividual  has been diagnosed with al cohol use di sorder;  
and  
(c) habitual  or  binge consumption of alcohol to the point of impaired  
judgment, regardless  of whether the individual is diagnosed with alcohol  
use disorder.   
Appl
icant’s consumption of alcohol raises security concerns under the above 
potentially disqualifying conditions. Her three DWI arrests evidence a history of habitual 
or binge consumption of alcohol to the point of impaired judgment . She has been 
assessed as having an Alcohol Use Disorder, and significantly, she continues to consume 
alcohol, even with her pending security clearance application , which was preliminarily 
denied by DCSA due to her alcohol consumption. Accordingly, the burden shifts to 
Applicant to rebut, extenuate, or mitigate the security concerns raised by her alcohol 
consumption. AG ¶ 23 sets forth the following four mitigating conditions under Guideline 
G: 
(a) so much time has passed,  or  the behavior was so infrequent, or it  
happened under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or does not  
cast doubt on the individual ’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or  
judgment;  
(b) the individual acknowledges his  or  her pattern of maladaptive  alcohol  
use,  provides evidence of  actions taken to overcome this  problem, and has  
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
   
   
    
 
    
    
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
    
        
 
 
 
   
    
     
demonstrated a clear and established pattern of modified consumption or  
abstinence in accordance with treatment recommendations;  
(c) the individual is participating in counseling or a treatment program, has  
no pr
evious history of treatment  and relapse, and is making satisfactory  
progress in a treatment program;  and  
(d) the individual has  s uccessfully completed a treatment program  along  
with any required aftercare and has demonstrated a clear  and established  
pattern of  modified consumption or  abstinence in accordance with treatment  
recommendations.   
None o
f the mitigating conditions have been established. Insufficient time has 
passed since Applicant’s last arrest in October 2021. It cannot be concluded that her 
excessive drinking will not recur. Almost six years passed after her second arrest for DWI 
when she was again driving after excessive drinking. S ince she continues to consume 
alcohol, the passage of time since her last arrest for DWI is not persuasive evidence that 
she will not drink alcohol irresponsibly and in such a way as to affect her judgment in the 
future. She has not provided any evidence that she is participating in counseling or a 
treatment program. Based upon the record evidence, doubts remain as to her current 
reliability, trustworthiness, and judgment. 
Paragraph 2, Guideline J  (Criminal Conduct)  
The security concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 30 as follows: 
Criminal activity creates doubt  about a person’s judgment, reliability,  and 
trustworthiness. By its  very nature, it calls into question a person’s  ability  
or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations.  
AG ¶ 31 describes four conditions that could raise security concerns. The following 
two conditions have possible application to the facts of this case and may be disqualifying: 
(a) a pattern of  m
 inor offenses, any  one of which on its own would be  
unlikely to affect a  national security eligibility decision, but which in  
combination cast doubt on the individual’s judgment, reliability, or  
trustworthiness;   and  
(b) evidence (including, but not limited to, a credible allegation, an 
adm
ission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of  
whether the individual  was formally charged,  prosecuted, or convicted.   
Appl
icant’s significant history of criminal behavior establishes the above potentially 
disqualifying conditions. Accordingly, the burden shifts to Applicant to rebut, extenuate, 
or mitigate the security concerns raised by her criminal conduct. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
     
   
 
  
 
     
    
  
      
  
   
   
 
    
  
  
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
AG ¶ 32 sets out four mitigating conditions under Guideline J. The following two 
conditions have possible application to the facts in this case: 
(a) so much t i me has elapsed since the criminal behavior  happened, or it  
happened under such unusual circumstances, that it is unlikely to recur and  
does not cast doubt on the individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, or good  
judgment; and  
(d)  there is evidence of successful rehabilitation; including,  but  not limited to,  
the passage of time without recurrence  of criminal  activity, rest itution,  
compliance with the terms of parole or  probation, job training or higher  
education, good  employment record, or constructive community involvement.  
Nei
ther mitigating condition has been established. Applicant’s last arrest was in 
October 2021. S he has not had a driver’s license since that arrest and has had no 
opportunity to show that she can avoid future criminal conduct when she drinks alcohol. 
Accordingly, it cannot be concluded, based solely upon the passage of time, that similar 
criminal conduct will not recur. The fact that her most recent arrest occurred in the context 
of a vehicular accident evidences the risk to the public she has posed by her criminal 
conduct. Her behavior casts doubt on her reliability, trustworthiness, and judgment. 
Applicant’s excellent employment record and her successful completion of supervised 
probation is some evidence of rehabilitation. However, she was motivated to comply with 
the terms of her sentence and probation so that she could avoid a prosecution on a felony 
charge and the risk of imprisonment. The educational classes she has taken were all 
ordered by the judicial system. She presented no evidence of actions she has taken on 
her own to establish that her criminal behavior is truly in the past. Her praiseworthy 
employment record alone is insufficient evidence of rehabilitation to permit a conclusion 
of “success.” 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for national security eligibility by considering the totality of the 
applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should 
consider the nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
9 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
   
 
  
        
   
 
    
 
    
  
 
 
      
  
 
   
 
    
 
     
 
       
 
 
     
   
 
                                                  
 
 
 
 
 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant national security eligibility 
must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration of the 
guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the above whole-person factors and the potentially disqualifying and 
mitigating conditions in light of all pertinent facts and circumstances surrounding this 
case. I have given consideration to Applicant’s solid employment record, her obvious 
intelligence, and her strong motivation to continue on a path of professional 
advancement. The record evidence, however, does not present an individual who has 
voluntarily reached out to available resources to help her avoid future problems with her 
alcohol consumption. Her history with alcohol demonstrates the future risk of impaired 
judgment that can lead to criminal behavior and may create a threat to national security . 
Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions a nd doubts as to Applicant’s 
suitability for national security eligibility and a security clearance. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by ¶ E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  G
 uideline G:   AGAI
NST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 1.a  through 1.c:   Against Applicant 
Paragraph 2, Guideline J  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph 2.a:  Against Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant national security eligibility. 
Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
JOHN BAYARD GLENDON 
Administrative Judge 10 