 
              
                                                                                                                    
          
           
             
 
 
 
    
  
               
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
    
 
 
 
  
     
 
   
    
  
     
   
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEP
ARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00967 
) 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: 
Andrew H. Henderson, Esquire, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: 
Alan Edmunds, Esquire 
07/16/2025 
Decision 
GLENDON, John Bayard, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant has not mitigated the security concerns raised under Guideline B 
(Foreign Influence), Guideline H ( Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse ), and 
Guideline J ( Criminal Conduct). National security eligibility for access to classified 
information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a Questionnaire for National Security Positions on May 15 , 
2023 (the Questionnaire). On September 12, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and 
Security Agency (DCSA) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing 
security concerns under Guidelines B , H, and J. The action was taken under Executive 
Order 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information Within Industry (February 20, 1960), 
as amended; Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial 
Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended 
(Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) effective within DoD after June 8, 2017. 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
     
      
    
     
 
  
       
        
      
       
     
 
 
    
    
    
     
    
    
      
    
  
      
   
 
    
      
  
    
    
 
    
   
  
   
     
 
      
    
   
 
Applicant responded to the SOR allegations on November 26, 2024 (Answer) and 
requested a hearing before an administrative judge from the Defense Office of Hearings 
and Appeals (DOHA). Department Counsel was prepared to proceed on December 23, 
2024. The case was assigned to me on January 15, 2025. DOHA sent Applicant a Notice 
of Hearing on February 12, 2025, initially scheduling the case to be heard via Microsoft 
Teams video teleconference on March 5 , 2025. Applicant then retained counsel, who 
requested a continuance. I granted the request, and on February 21, 2025, the matter 
was rescheduled by mutual agreement for April 9, 2025. 
I convened the hearing as rescheduled. Department Counsel offered three 
documents marked as Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 3 and a fourth document, a 
Request for Administrative Notice regarding Ukraine in support of the Government’s SOR 
allegations under Guideline B . T he Government’s Administrative N otice request was 
designated as Hearing Exhibit (HE) I. Applicant’s counsel raised no objections to GE 1 
through GE 3 and HE I. The Government’s exhibits were admitted into the record. (Tr. at 
10-12.) 
Department Counsel introduced three additional exhibits during the hearing in 
rebuttal to Applicant’s testimony regarding the status of his previously granted security 
clearance during a period relevant to the Guideline H allegations. These documents were 
marked as GE 4 through GE 6. Applicant’s counsel initially objected to GE 4 as rebuttal 
evidence on the ground that it was not produced as part of the Government’s pre-hearing 
document production, but then he waived his objection. He also waived any objections to 
GE 5 and GE 6 . All three exhibits were admitted into the record. Applicant’s counsel 
introduced 23 proposed exhibits marked as Applicant Exhibits (AE) A through W. AE U 
consists of five separate character reference letters. AE W, which was re-marked at the 
hearing as Hearing Exhibit (HE) W, is Applicant’s undated Request for Discovery. (Tr. at 
11-12, 32-33, 43-44; 47-48, 55-58.) 
At the conclusion of the hearing, I left the record open until April 23, 20 25, in 
response to a request from Applicant’s counsel to have the opportunity to supplement the 
record in light of Department Counsel’s submission of GE 4 through GE 6 as rebuttal 
evidence. On April 2 4, 2025, Applicant’s counsel submitted five additional documents 
identified in an accompanying exhibit list as proposed AE W through AE AA and two 
additional unmarked documents, one of which was a Request for Administrative Notice, 
which I subsequently remarked as HE II. (The email correspondence between Applicant’s 
counsel and his staff, Department Counsel, and me, beginning with Department 
Counsel’s submission of GE 4 through GE 6 during the hearing through the final 
submission of Applicant’s post hearing submission, discussed below, is marked as 
Hearing Exhibit III.) (Tr. at 75; HE III at 10-40, 41-42.) 
Neither Department Counsel nor his staff were copied on the emails submitting AE 
W through AE AA , and a post-hearing Declaration by Applicant . On May 5, 2025, I 
forwarded those emails and attached exhibits to Department Counsel, with a copy of my 
email addressed to Applicant’s counsel. I asked Department Counsel to provide the 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
     
    
       
     
   
    
    
      
    
 
     
   
 
 
   
      
  
      
     
      
      
     
  
    
     
    
Government’s position on the admissibility of Applicant’s post-hearing submissions and 
to provide any comments  on the proposed exhibits  he deems  appropriate.  On May 6, 
2025,  Department Counsel responded  and  objected  to the  documents due to the 
untimeliness of  the April  24th  submissions and t he failure of  Applicant’s  counsel to serve  
the Government with its  post-hearing submission of  evidence.  Applicant’s counsel  
responded  by  email the same day. He commented that  he was  not in the  United States  
at that time  of the submission,  and he  apologized for the brief delay. He referred to the  
delay  as “harmless error”  and asked f or understanding.  (HE III at 6-8.)  
I delayed  my response until  May 12,  2025, with the intent to give Applicant’s  
counsel time to return to his office and assume control over  some confusion created by  
his  post-hearing submission.  I wrote that I would accept the untimely submission, and I  
gave Department Counsel until May 16, 2025, to submit the Government’s  
objections/comments  to the proposed  exhibits.  On May 15,  2025,  Department Counsel  
responded. He objected to all of Applicant’s proposed post-hearing  exhibits.  (HE III  at 4-
5.)   
A
pplicant’s counsel responded on May 1 6, 2025, and argued in favor of the 
admissibility of each proposed exhibit. His office also submitted a revised, final exhibit list 
to clarify his post-hearing submission. He identified four documents as AE W through Z. 
AE W is identified as a Declaration by Applicant. AE X is a duplicate copy of Applicant’s 
form DD 214, dated January 23, 2020, which was admitted at the hearing as AE C. AE Y 
consists of two unsigned and undated copies of tax returns Applicant claims he filed for 
tax years 2021 and 2022. A final document marked as AE Z is a request for Administrative 
Notice regarding Ukraine, which I have redesignated as Hearing Exhibit II. My ruling on 
Applicant’s three final, post-hearing exhibits (AE W through Y), which have been objected 
to by Department Counsel, are set forth below. (HE III at 1A-1B, 1-5.) 
The record closed on May 19, 2025. DOHA received the transcript of the hearing 
(Tr.) on April 17, 2025. 
Evidentiary Ruling  
Department Counsel has objected to Applicant’s three post -hearing, proposed 
exhibits, AE W through AE Y. Applicant Exhibit W, Applicant’s Declaration, sets forth 
Applicant’s comments on certain issues that arose during the hearing. Department 
Counsel had no opportunity to cross examine Applicant about his statements in the 
Declaration. I do not find any significant new facts set forth in the Declaration, other than 
Applicant’s complaints about my questioning the truthfulness of parts of his testimony. 
Accordingly, the Government’s case was not materially impacted by the statements in the 
exhibit. I will admit AE W and give it the weight it deserves. AE X is a second copy of 
Applicant’s January 23, 2020 DD 214. I will sustain the objection to this proposed exhibit 
as duplicative. Lastly, AE Y are copies of two unsigned and undated federal tax returns 
for the tax years 2021 and 2022 when Applicant was a student and his annual income 
was under $10,000. Presumably, this exhibit is offered to show that Applicant was not 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
     
  
 
 
   
   
    
  
   
     
  
      
   
        
       
  
 
      
   
   
 
 
     
     
     
       
   
    
      
       
 
  
    
   
       
      
 
   
   
    
        
   
      
earning any income from his role at the time in the Army Reserves. I will admit the exhibit 
and give it the weight it deserves. 
Procedural Ruling  
Department Counsel requested in HE I that I take administrative notice of certain 
facts relating to Ukraine. He provided an 11-page summary of those facts, supported by 
21 U.S. Government documents pertaining to Ukraine attached to his request . The 
documents elaborate upon and provide context for the factual summary set forth in HE I. 
After the hearing, Applicant’s counsel submitted a four-page Request for Administrative 
Notice (HE II) setting forth additional facts relating to Ukraine and the relationship 
between Ukraine and the United States . I note that the Government’s Request is dated 
December 20, 2024, and does not address the current U.S. relationship with Ukraine after 
the change in U.S. Presidential Administrations in January 2025. Also, I note that 
Applicant did not provide copies of the cited sources with his Request and that the few 
citations in his Request that contain dates pre-date January 2025. Accordingly, the record 
is incomplete regarding the current relationship between the United States and Ukraine. 
I take administrative notice of facts included in the Government documents attached to 
HE I and facts set forth in HE II that are limited to the country conditions in Ukraine. These 
facts are limited to matters of general knowledge, not subject to reasonable dispute. They 
are set forth in the Findings of Fact, below. (HE I; HE II.) 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 28 years old. He was born in Ukraine in 1996. H is mother, who was 
born in Russia, divorced his father, a Ukrainian citizen. She immigrated with Applicant 
and his sister to the United States in 2011 following her engagement to a naturalized U.S. 
citizen, who was born in Ukrain e. Applicant was about 15 years old at the time . In May 
2014, he graduated from high school in the U.S. and earned a bachelor’s degree in 
December 2023 at an American university. Applicant enlisted in the U.S. Army Reserves 
in March 2015 and became a naturalized U.S. citizen in August 2015. He applied for a 
security clearance in March 2015, but no immediate action was taken on his application. 
On June 26, 2019, the DCSA, acting under the name of the Department of Defense 
Consolidated Adjudication Facility, or DoD CAF, fully adjudicated the application and 
granted Applicant national security eligibility. Applicant failed to disclose his prior 
application and the positive adjudication of that application in the May 2023 
Questionnaire. (Tr. at 13, 30-33, 55-56, 58-59; GE 1 at 5-8, 10-13, 18, 21-25, 39; GE 2 at 
4; GE 3 at 1; GE 4 at 1-2; GE 5; GE 6; AE O; AE P; AE Q.) 
Applicant has served in the Army Reserves for about ten years (2015 to the 
present). He was called to active duty in March 2019. After serving in Kuwait and Jordan, 
he was released from active duty in January 2020. He continued his duties i n the 
Reserves through August 2022. His status in the Reserves and the status of his security 
clearance between 2020 and 2022/2023 is disputed and is somewhat complicated due to 
a lack of clear testimony and exhibits in the record. That issue is discussed in more detail 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
    
   
 
        
      
     
    
  
   
 
      
    
    
       
        
   
 
      
  
    
     
    
     
   
       
     
     
below.  Applicant reenlisted in the Reserves in August 2023.   His present pay grade is E-
5. He has been given an 80% disability rating by  the VA. Also, he began  in-processing  
for employment as  a linguist with a U.S. contractor  earlier  in 2023. He prepared the May  
15,  2023  Questionnaire  in connection with his non- governmental employment.  He also  
completed a Counterintelligence-Focused Security  Screening Questionnaire, dated May  
31, 2023,  (CI  Interview)  in connection with his  duties  as  a deployed contract linguist . At 
the time of the hearing, he was working for the contractor  on a temporary basis  as a 
linguist  in Germany  performing services for  NATO’s support of  Ukraine. At  the hearing,  
Applicant discussed his service in the Reserves as though he was no longer a reservist.  
However, he has  not provided any  documentation evidencing that  he has been  
discharged, so it  appears that  he remains a reservist until his  2023 reenlistment contract  
expires  at a future date, as  discussed below. (Tr. at 13-14,  33;  GE 1 at 13,  18;  GE 3 at 1, 
6; AE C;  AE G.)   
Paragraph 1, Guideline  B ( Foreign Influence)  
The Government alleged in this paragraph of the SOR that Applicant is ineligible 
for a security clearance due to having contacts, who are citizens and residents of Ukraine. 
In the Answer, Applicant admitted the allegations. I find the following facts as set forth in 
the pleadings, developed at the hearing, and detailed in the documentary record: 
SOR ¶ 1.a. Applicant’s Father - a Citizen and Resident of Ukraine. Applicant’s 
father is about 56 years old and is a citizen and resident of Ukraine. Applicant last saw 
his father in person in 2019. As of January 2024, Applicant communicated with his father 
electronically or by telephone on a monthly basis. He testified that he speaks with his 
father “occasionally” and last spoke with him two months prior to the hearing. (Tr. at 16, 
34-35; GE 1 at 21-22; GE 2 at 5.) 
Applicant testified that his father is a physical education teacher in a Ukrainian 
school. After acknowledging that the school is a public school run by the Ukrainian 
government, he then corrected himself stating that he believes that his father may no 
longer be a schoolteacher. In fact, he commented further that his father was just filling in 
temporarily for someone else. His father has always worked as a judo coach and owns a 
location where judo and martial arts are practiced. (Tr. at 34-35; GE 2 at 5.) 
SOR ¶ 1.b. Applicant’s Friends – Citizens and Residents of Ukraine. In his 
responses to the Government’s interrogatories, Applicant listed three friends who were 
citizens and residents of Ukraine. He claimed that he last communicated with them in 
April 2021 , about ten months before Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. He advised the 
investigator conducting his January 2024 security interview (Security Interview) that he 
has yearly or twice-yearly contact with two of the friends using texts or social media. In 
his August 2024 interrogatory responses, he reported having contact with all three friends 
once every two years , and his last contact was in April 2021. Applicant only listed two 
Ukrainian friend in the CI Interview. Also, Applicant failed to identify any foreign contacts 
in response to Section 19 of the Questionnaire, which asked if he has any foreign contacts 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
   
    
    
       
     
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
      
   
  
   
 
   
  
    
 
 
       
   
    
      
   
    
     
    
     
  
    
 
  
    
  
 
with  whom he has close and continuing contact.  He corrected this response in his  Security  
Interview.  At the he aring, he testified that  he last  communicated  with  the three friends in  
April 2021, which includes any communication via text or  social media. (Tr. at 17-18,  35-
37;  GE 2 at  11, 19; GE 3 at 9; 25-26.)  
SOR ¶ 1.c. Applicant’s Friends who are Members of the Ukrainian Military. Of 
the three Ukrainian friends, Applicant identified in his interrogatory responses two of them 
as members of the Ukrainian military. In his May 2023 CI Interview, he disclosed that one 
friend in the Ukrainian military sent him $200 in April 2022, and Applicant used the funds 
to buy and send drone parts to the friend for military use. He also disclosed that in January 
2023 he sent the other friend in the Ukrainian military $60 to help pay for the maintenance 
of a truck used by the friend’s military unit. He also identified in the May 2023 CI Interview 
that the second friend was an artillery officer in the Ukrainian military and that Applicant 
has monthly contact with this friend. At the hearing, Applicant claimed that he was unable 
to say whether the two friends are still members of the Ukrainian military and that his last 
contact with them was in April 2021. (Tr. at 35-37; GE 2 at 11, 19; GE 3 at 25-26.) 
Paragraph 2, Guideline H (Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse) 
Under this guideline, the Government alleged that Applicant’s use of five different 
types of illegal recreational drugs during various periods when he held a sensitive 
position, i.e., had been granted a security clearance, was disqualifying. In the Answer, 
Applicant admitted each of the allegations including the separate allegations that his drug 
use occurred during periods when he held a sensitive position by virtue of having been 
granted a security clearance. At the hearing, he testified that the dates of drug use he 
provided in the Questionnaire were good estimates and could be relied upon. (Tr. at 52.) 
I find the following facts as set forth in the pleadings, developed at the hearing, and 
detailed in the documentary record: 
SOR ¶ 2.a. Marijuana Use – January 2016 to May 2022. Applicant disclosed in 
the Questionnaire that he experimented with marijuana once or twice during the period 
2016 to 2022 when he was with friends. He testified that he used marijuana twice during 
the six-year period set forth in the SOR allegation. He said he did not “clearly recall” who 
he was with or where the drug use occurred. In the 2023 CI Interview, he stated that he 
“ate marijuana edibles” in April or May 2022. In his 2024 Security Interview, he advised 
that in 2022, he took a couple of “hits” from “a joint” that was offered to him. He provided 
a more specific month of his last use of marijuana in his August 2024 interrogatory 
responses, i.e., May 2022. At the hearing, he claimed he had no recollection of the 
circumstances regarding each of his uses of the drug. (Tr. at 15, 19-20, 42-43; GE 1 at 
36; GE 2 at 9, 16-18; GE 3 at 11.) 
Applicant responded to an interrogatory question asking when he learned that 
marijuana remained illegal under federal law by writing that he first learned that fact when 
he read the interrogatory statement, which was in August 2024 when he signed his 
responses to the interrogatories. He answered another interrogatory question 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
    
  
   
     
    
 
      
      
     
  
      
  
   
   
    
  
  
   
     
     
     
      
  
 
 
 
       
   
    
   
   
        
   
      
     
affirmatively acknowledging that he was required to take a pre- employment drug test for 
his current contractor position as a linguist, which was in 2023 around the submission 
date of the Questionnaire. He also testified that he was required to take drug tests several 
times a year while serving in the Reserves and living in a state that had legalized 
marijuana. I find Applicant’s interrogatory response denying knowledge about the illegal 
status of marijuana under federal law prior to August 2024 to be one of many claims he 
made throughout the security clearance process that lacked credibility. (Tr. at 15, 24-25, 
38; GE 2 at 9, 16-18.) 
SOR ¶ 2.b. Cocaine Use  - September 2021 to April 2022. Applicant disclosed 
in the May 15, 2023 Questionnaire that he used cocaine “a few times” during the period 
from September 2021 to April 2022 when he was with some friends. In the May 31, 2023 
CI Interview, Applicant responded that he only used cocaine once in April or May 2022. 
At his January 10, 2024 Security I nterview, which he authenticated as an accurate 
summary of his interview responses, he stated that he used cocaine two to three times 
during the September 2021 to April 2022 period. In his August 24, 2024 interrogatory 
responses, he wrote that he used cocaine twice, first in September 2021 and then again 
in April 2022. At the hearing, he testified that he used cocaine twice. When I asked 
Applicant to state if that was true, he responded “that seems to be correct .” He then 
confirmed that his testimony was “correct.” He said his first use of cocaine was in 
September 2021 after a concert. He said he did not have a clear recollection of the 
incident. He believes he met someone, went to the person’s home, and was offered 
cocaine. His second use of cocaine occurred in April 2022 under similar circumstances. 
He does not recall if he used cocaine the second time with the same person or any of the 
other surrounding circumstances. (Tr. at 20-21, 38-39, 43, 53; GE 1 at 36; GE 2 at 9-10, 
16; GE 3 at 11.) 
At the hearing,  Applicant  attempted to clarify his admissions  to SOR  ¶¶  2.a and 
2.b in the Answer  that he used bo th marijuana and cocaine while possessing a security  
clearance. He testified that  he only intended to admit  in the Answer  that he used  both 
drugs.  He s aid he did  not  intend  to admit to the portion of the allegation regarding drug  
use while holding  a sensitive position and possessing a security clearance. He explained  
that he did not believe  that he held a security  clearance after he was  “separated  from the 
Army  Reserves” at the time of his use s  of  marijuana and cocaine. See  findings  below  
regarding Applicant’s status  as a reservist in 2021 and 2022. (Tr. at  21.)    
SOR ¶ 2.c. LSD Use – May 2022. Applicant disclosed in the Questionnaire that 
he had “a few psychedelic trips” to see what the effects would be on his consciousness 
and “clarity of thought.” He wrote that “the trips were profound. ” He commented that he 
will rely on therapy “to address inner issues” in the future. In the Questionnaire, he 
mentioned two types of hallucinogenic drugs, LSD and p silocybin mushrooms, referred 
to collectively as one type of drug. He did not separately state how many times he used 
each drug. In his responses to the Government’s interrogatories, he provided separate 
information regarding his use of each type of hallucinogenic. He responded that he only 
used LSD once and that occurred in May 2022. He provided the same information in the 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
    
   
    
   
   
    
 
      
    
     
     
     
     
    
    
   
     
    
    
     
     
    
   
     
 
      
    
        
   
      
   
    
     
     
   
     
 
      
  
     
   
   
     
CI Interview and at the hearing. Applicant testified that he used LSD at a concert. When 
asked if he only used the drug once, he responded, “That seems to be the case.” When 
pressed by Department Counsel for a more definitive answer, he acknowledged that he 
had indeed only used LSD once. He could not recall any of the surrounding circumstances 
such as the performing bands , where the concert took place, or who he was with at the 
concert. In the Security Interview, he was a little more forthcoming. He stated that the 
LSD “trip” lasted almost 12 hours and that it was not a pleasant experience. (Tr. at 21-22, 
39-40; GE 1 at 37; GE 2 at 10, 16; GE 3 at 11.) 
SOR ¶ 2. d. Psilocybin Mushroom Use – September 2021. The other 
hallucinogenic drug use Applicant disclosed in the Questionnaire was psilocybin 
mushrooms. He did not write in the Questionnaire how many times he used this drug or 
when. In the CI Interview, he disc losed that he used “[psychedelic] mushrooms” three 
times in April-May 2022, and he then said he used the drug twice during the same time 
frame. Applicant stated at his Security Interview that he used psilocybin mushrooms and 
did not provide how many times he used the drug. He referenced one particular, five-hour 
“trip.” In his interrogatory responses, Applicant disclosed that he used a psilocybin 
mushroom once in September 2021 . At the hearing, he testified that he used this drug 
one time without specifying a timeframe. He could provide no details regarding the 
surrounding circumstances before or during his drug-induced “trip,” other than his use of 
psilocybin mushroom s could have been at a festival. In his Security Interview, he 
elaborated that his use of mushrooms resulted in a “trip” that was “spiritual in nature.” 
Applicant testified that his admission to the allegation in SOR ¶ 2.d was intended to be 
limited to the portion of the allegation related to his one-time use of psilocybin mushrooms 
and not to the portion of the allegation that he possessed a security clearance at the time 
of his hallucinogenic drug use. (Tr. at 22, 40-41; GE 2 at 10, 16; GE 3 at 11.) 
SOR ¶ 2. e. Ecstasy Use – September 2021 to January 2022. Applicant 
disclosed in the Questionnaire that he used ecstasy, also referred to as MDMA, twice with 
friends, once in September 2021 and again in January 2022. At the CI Interview about 
two weeks later, he responded that he used ecstasy one time, which occurred in April -
May 2022. In his Security Interview, he advised that he used ecstasy on two separate 
occasions during the period September 2021 to January 2022. At the hearing, he 
admitted that he used ecstasy twice during the period 2021 to 2022. In the Questionnaire, 
he wrote that he took mild doses of the drug , and the experiences were “quite literally, 
overwhelming.” At the hearing, h e had no clear recollections of the surrounding 
circumstances of the two times he claimed he used ecstasy. (Tr. at 22, 41-42; GE 1 at 
37-38; GE 2 at 10, 16; GE 3 at 11.) 
SOR ¶¶ 2.a through 2. e, Use of Illegal Drugs while Holding a Sensitive 
Position with a Security Clearance. The SOR alleged that Applicant used five different 
types of illegal drugs while he held a sensitive position and a security clearance. In the 
Answer, Applicant admitted each of the Guideline H allegations without any exceptions 
or comments. At the hearing, Applicant’s counsel announced in his opening statement 
that Applicant was not aware that he may have held a security clearance during the 2021 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
    
     
   
     
      
      
    
 
      
   
       
  
 
    
     
 
   
   
  
    
  
 
    
 
  
       
    
    
      
        
   
    
    
      
      
         
 
      
    
     
   
      
   
to 2022 period when Applicant used the drugs discussed above. Counsel noted that 
Applicant submitted the Answer before he retained an attorney. Counsel did not formally 
amend the Answer prior to the hearing or at the hearing. Applicant then testified that he 
did not believe that he was a member of the Reserves after he received a DD 214 in 
January 2020 until he reenlisted in 2023, and in particular during the period in September 
2021 and May 2022 when he used drugs. He also did not believe he had an active security 
clearance at that time. He further explained, as noted, that he did not intend to admit in 
the Answer the portions of each of the Guideline H allegations relating to using drugs 
while holding a sensitive position with a security clearance. (Tr. at 8-9, 21-23, 33, 65.) 
Applicant’s new claim was inconsistent with the information he provided in the 
Questionnaire that he had been a member of the Army Reserves from March 2015 to the 
date of the Questionnaire, i.e. May 15, 2023. He clarified in detail his dates with the 
Reserves at his Security Interview. He reported that his original status with the Reserves 
was from March 2015 to March 2021, at which point he transferred to the Individual Ready 
Reserve, or IRR, of the Army Reserves. That status continued until March 2022, at which 
time he was assigned to a Reserves ’ medical group. Applicant did not disclose to the 
investigator any change in his security clearance status during 2021 or 2022. To add to 
the confusion about Applicant’s status as a reservist and holder of a sensitive position 
and a security clearance in 2021 and 2022 , Applicant testified at the hearing that he 
served in the Reserves for almost ten years, referring to his initial enlistment date in 2015 
and the date of the hearing in 2025, just as he wrote in the Questionnaire. (GE 1 at 13, 
18; GE 2 at 4, 9; AE G.) 
As a result of this change in positions at the outset of the hearing, Department 
Counsel attempted to create a record at the hearing that disputed Applicant’s new position 
regarding his security clearance status in 2021 and 2022. He introduced three documents 
that he was able to produce during the proceeding. These records evidence that Applicant 
was initially granted national security eligibility on June 26, 2019, and that his sponsor at 
the time was an Army Reserves medical unit. One of the records, later designated as GE 
4, reflects that this sponsorship continued until August 30, 2021. GE 4 also indicates that 
on August 19, 2021, the U.S. Army’s Human Resources Command assumed sponsorship 
of Applicant’s clearance with the notation on the exhibit of “IRR.” That sponsorship ended 
on March 13, 2024, and two other medical commands picked up sponsorship of his 
clearance in 2024. Also, GE 4 indicates that Applicant’s industry sponsor appears as an 
“owning” entity as of May 9, 2023. Applicant testified that he was unaware of any security 
clearance relationship with any part of Reserves or the Army during the 2021 or 2022 
period. (Tr. at 32; GE 4 at 2; GE 5.) 
Three of Applicant’s exhibits add some clarity to his military history as a Reservist. 
When his deployment on active duty ended in January 2020, he was given a DD 214, 
dated January 23, 2020 (AE C) . Applicant’s counsel referred to this document as an 
Honorable Discharge from the Reserves. In fact, the exhibit specifically states in Block 
23, titled “Type of Separation, ” that this document is a “Release from Active Duty.” He 
had been called up to active duty in March 2019 and deployed overseas. It also states in 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
    
    
    
      
  
       
        
    
       
        
    
    
      
     
           
 
  
    
     
     
      
    
   
   
     
    
       
 
 
    
   
  
 
      
   
    
    
    
    
     
  
Block 6 that Applicant’s “Reserve Obligation” would terminate on March 15, 2023. (Tr. at 
8, 61-62; AE C; AE D; AE G; AE I.) 
Applicant also submitted an exhibit (AE G) identified in his Exhibit List as 
“Enlistment IRR.” This exhibit reflects that Applicant transitioned to IRR status in May 
2021. He then transitioned in August 2022 from IRR status to what the Army Reserves 
call a “ Troop Program Unit ,” or TPU. His unit was a medical group. Another exhibit 
introduced by Applicant shows that he actually joined the medical group in March 2022 
(AE N). As noted  above, Applicant’s DD 214 (AE C) provides that his enlistment contract 
would expire in August 2023. He reenlisted in the Reserves in August 2023. Applicant 
testified and provided a post -hearing Declaration, signed under oath, stating that he 
separated from the ”military” in 2020 and reenlisted in 2023. As best as can be determined 
from his reenlistment document, AE D, and from AE G and AE I, Applicant’s status in the 
Reserves was as a part of the IRR from about May 2021 through March or perhaps 
August 2022, at which time he joined a medical group of the Reserves . He was not 
required to drill during that period when he was in the IRR and was not paid as a Reservist. 
However, as a member of the Army Reserves IRR, he remained part of the military during 
that period. (Tr. at 22-23; GE 2 at 4; AE D; AE G; AE I; AE N; AE W at 2; AE Y.) 
It is also clear that Applicant’s security clearance remained active during his time 
as part of the IRR. Applicant denies that he was aware of having a security clearance 
during the period in 2021 and 2022 when he used drugs. However, he did advise the 
investigator at the 2023 CI Interview that he had been granted a Secret clearance on 
June 26, 2019, and it had never been suspended or revoked. He provided no testimony 
or exhibits evidencing that he was advised about the status of his clearance while in the 
IRR. Due to the untimely disclosure of Applicant’s changed position on his admissions to 
the Guideline H SOR allegations, Department Counsel had no opportunity to address this 
issue by litigating the responsibilities of a Reservist after separation from active duty and 
while part of the IRR and what information Applicant would have received about his 
clearance status. (Tr. at 13-16, 22-23, 30-33, 55, 62; GE 2 at 4; GE 3 at 7; AE G; AE Y.) 
Mitigation  and Whole-Person Evidence  
I have carefully reviewed all of Applicant’s testimony and exhibits addressing 
mitigation and the whole- person analysis. Below is a summary of the most significant 
evidence. 
Applicant asserts that he does not intend to use illegal drugs in the future. He 
signed a written statement making this commitment and has repeatedly stated that he 
has no interest in using drugs again. Applicant took and passed drug tests while in the 
Reserves several times a year. He has also taken three online education class es 
regarding the use of cocaine, LSD, and marijuana . Since his reenlistment in 2023, he 
asserts that he has not taken any illegal drugs and has not tested positive on a drug test. 
(Tr. at 15, 21-22, 27-29, 39-42; AE A at 1-2; AE B; AE W at 2.) 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
  
   
 
      
       
      
   
      
  
        
  
   
 
  
      
 
 
    
   
  
   
   
 
      
    
 
   
     
   
 
    
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Applicant also submitted a written statement setting forth his intent to avoid all 
contact with “unauthorized” foreign individuals outside of his official duties and his family. 
As for his family, he committed that all communications with them will be casual and 
infrequent. (AE A at 3-4.) 
Applicant presented many exhibits evidencing the courses he has taken as part of 
the Reserves and the awards he has received during his duty in the Reserves prior to 
2020. Another exhibit shows that he has been certified as an Emergency Medical 
Technician. He is presently a Combat Medical Specialist in the Reserves. He has 
received extensive training as part of his duties in the Reserves. Applicant has also had 
a significant career as an Emergency Medical Technician (EMT) in his civilian 
employment. (AE C; AE E; AE J; AE K; AE L; AE R; AE S.) 
Applicant submitted five character reference l etters. He testified that all of the 
reference writers were aware of this case, though he did not state whether they are aware 
of the Government’s specific national security allegations. None of the letters specifically 
state that the writers were made aware of the Government’s security concerns. (Tr. at 29; 
AE U.) 
An Army medic who has known Applicant since their 2019 deployment together 
described Applicant’s character as “honest, reliable, and compassionate.” He also praised 
Applicant’s “drive to succeed.” A physician/teacher at a university where Applicant has 
worked described Applicant as professional and diligent. He has been impressed by 
Applicant’s professional demeanor and “unwavering integrity.” An EMT colleague and 
friend wrote that Applicant has strong technical knowledge and excellent communication 
skills. He wrote that Applicant mentors others and works hard to help others develop 
professionally. A long-time friend of Applicant’s wrote that he has consistently observed 
Applicant’s “unwavering commitment  to honesty, trustworthiness, and dependability.” 
Lastly, a captain in the Army Reserves wrote that Applicant ’s “character and personal 
accomplishments reflect the nature of his deep commitment to the Unites States of 
America and to the success of our Army.” (AE U.) 
At the hearing, I questioned Applicant as to why he did not disclose his June 2019 
security clearance in the May 2023 Questionnaire. He responded that “I may have simply 
made a mistake for which I apologize.” He admitted that he had a college degree and had 
no problem reading the Questionnaire. He denied that he intentionally failed to disclose 
his prior clearance because he was admitting in the Questionnaire derogatory information 
about his drug use about one year before the submission of the Questionnaire, and the 
disclosure of his 2019 clearance in the Questionnaire might raise awkward questions. (Tr. 
at 49-50.) 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
     
    
  
      
    
   
   
    
 
    
 
    
     
  
      
   
    
 
   
   
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
     
Ukraine  
In 1991, Ukraine declared its independence from the Soviet Union. Russia invaded 
and occupied Ukraine’s Crimean Peninsula in 2014. Russia then claimed Crimea as part 
of Russia. Russian proxies also asserted control over two eastern regions of Ukraine, 
Luhansk and Donetsk. In February 2022, Russia escalated the conflict by invading 
Ukraine on several fronts. In December 2023, Russia began launching massive aerial 
assaults on Ukraine, striking cities and civilian infrastructure across Ukraine. Russia’s 
leader seeks to destroy Ukraine and subjugate its people. Since late 2023, Russia has 
made continual incremental battlefield gains and is benefiting from uncertaint ies about 
the future of Western military assistance. At this writing, the war in Ukraine is ongoing. 
In 2023, the U.S. State Department issued warnings to U.S. citizens not to travel 
to Ukraine due to the armed conflict, noting that the security situation in Ukraine remains 
unpredictable. There have been significant human rights abuses by Russian forces in 
areas under Russian control. These abuses include arbitrary, unlawful, and extra-judicial 
killings, enforced disappearances, torture, and cruel treatment and punishment. The 
Russian forces have reportedly c aused widespread civilian casualties and forcibly 
separated families. There are also reports of Ukrainian Government officials engaging in 
serious human rights abuses. 
Ukraine seeks closer ties with NATO and holds Enhanced Opportunities Partner 
status with the alliance. This designation reflects NATO’s recognition of Ukraine’s 
importance to international security. 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for national security eligibility, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines (AG) list 
potentially disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in 
evaluating an applicant’s national security eligibility. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. The entire 
process is a conscientious scrutiny of applicable guidelines in the context of a number of 
variables known as the whole- person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires, “Any doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
  
  
   
    
 
  
  
  
  
    
    
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. I have not drawn inferences based on mere speculation or 
conjecture. 
Directive ¶ E3.1.14, requires the Government to present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, “The applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel, and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable clearance decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants national 
security eligibility. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk the 
applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or safeguard classifi ed 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as 
to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified or sensitive information. 
Finally, as emphasized in Section 7 of Executive Order 10865, “Any determination under 
this order adverse to an applicant shall be a determination in terms of the national interest 
and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” 
See also Executive Order 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information.) 
Analysis  
Paragraph 1, Guideline  B ( Foreign Influence)  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Foreign Influence is set out in AG ¶ 6: 
Foreign contacts and interests, including, but not limited to, business, 
financial, and property interests, are a national security concern if they result 
in divided allegiance. They may also be a national security concern if they 
create circumstances in which the individual may be manipulated or induced 
to help a foreign person, group, organization, or government in a way 
inconsistent with U.S. interests or otherwise made vulnerable to pressure 
or coercion by any foreign interest. Assessment of foreign contacts and 
interests should consider the country in which the foreign contact or interest 
is located, including, but not limited to, considerations such as whether it is 
known to target U.S. citizens to obtain classified or sensitive information or 
is associated with a risk of terrorism. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
    
 
 
 
      
    
      
   
    
     
  
      
     
     
       
 
    
 
     
 
 
 
 
Guideline B sets forth nine conditions in AG ¶ 7 that could raise security concerns 
and may be disqualifying. The following two conditions are potentially applicable to the 
facts of this case: 
(a) contact, regardless of  me
 thod, with a foreign family  member, business  
or professional associate, friend, or other person who is a citizen of or  
resident in a foreign country if  that contact  creates a heightened risk of  
foreign exploitation,  inducement,  manipulation, pressure,  or coercion;  and  
(b) connections to a foreign person, group, government, or country that  
cr
eate a potential conflict of interest between the individual's obligation to  
protect classified or sensitive information  or  technology and the individual's  
desire to help a foreign person, group,  or country by  providing that  
information or  technology.  
The con
ditions set forth in AG ¶¶ 7(a) and 7(b) apply to the facts of this case. 
Applicant’s connections to Ukraine through his relationship with his father raise a 
heightened risk of foreign influence and exploitation as well as a conflict of interest. Also, 
the conditions in Ukraine as a war zone raise a heightened risk of exploitation, 
inducement, manipulation, pressure, or coercion of Applicant. The resulting insecurity of 
Applicant’s father raises the risk for Applicant even higher. The fact that Applicant is 
presently working for NATO against the interests of Russia in Ukraine further increases 
that risk and the potential for a significant conflict of interest . I also conclude that 
Applicant’s two childhood friends in Ukraine who are members of the Ukrainian military, 
create a heighten risk of foreign influence and exploitation and have the potential to create 
a conflict of interest for Applicant so as to render AG ¶¶ 7(a) and 7(b) applicable. 
The applicability of the above potentially disqualifying conditions shifts the burden 
to Applicant to mitigate any security concerns. I considered all of the mitigating conditions 
under AG ¶ 8 and conclude that the following three conditions have possible application 
to the facts of this case: 
(a) the nature of  the
  relationships with foreign  persons, the country in which  
these persons are located,  or the positions  or activities of those persons in  
that country are such  that it is unlikely the individual will be placed in  a  
position of having to choose between the interests of a foreign individual,  
group, organization,  or government  and the interests of the United States;  
(b) there is no conflict  of i nterest, either because the individual’s sense of  
loyalty or obligation to the foreign person, or allegiance to the group,  
government,  or country is so minimal,  or the  individual  has such deep and  
longstanding relationships and  loyalties  in the United States,  that the 
individual can be expected to resolve any conflict of interest in favor of the  
U.S. interest;  and  
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
     
   
     
  
   
    
      
    
   
  
   
 
      
  
     
    
  
  
    
  
 
 
    
    
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
     
(c)  contact  or communication with foreign citizens is so casual and  
i
nfrequent  that there is little likelihood that it  could create a risk for  foreign  
influence or exploitation.  
Wit
h respect to Applicant’s father, none of the above conditions are established. 
The nature of Applicant’s relationship with his father and the country conditions in Ukraine 
where his father is a citizen and resident create the heightened risk circumstances 
Guideline B address es. Also, t here is a potential for a conflict of interest because 
Applicant has a sense of familial loyalty to his father . Applicant may have relationships 
and loyalties in the United States developed in the last 13 years since he immigrated as 
a minor to this country. It cannot be concluded, however, that he can be expected to 
resolve any conflict of interest in favor of the U.S. interest. Moreover, Applicant should 
not be put in the position where he might ever have to make a choice between his father’s 
safety and well -being and the interests of U.S. national security. Lastly, Applicant’s 
contacts and communications with his father are not so casual and infrequent that there 
is little likelihood his relationship with his father could create a risk of foreign influence or 
exploitation. 
With respect to Applicant ’s childhood friends who are citizens and residents of 
Ukraine who are likely to be members of the Ukrainian military fighting the Russian 
aggression, I conclude that both of the mitigating conditions AG ¶¶ 8(b) and 8(c) apply. 
There is no conflict of interest because Applicant’s obligations to his friends are so 
minimal that he can be expected to resolve any conflicts in the interests of the United 
States. Moreover, Applicant’s contacts and communications with his friends in Ukraine, 
while likely greater than he has admitted, are so casual and infrequent that there is little 
likelihood of a risk of foreign influence or exploitation. 
Paragraph 2, Guideline  H ( Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse)  
The security concerns relating to the guideline for drug involvement and substance 
misuse are set out in AG ¶ 24, which reads as follows: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any “controlled substance” as 
defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in 
this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
      
   
 
 
 
 
       
  
 
   
  
 
   
    
   
    
    
 
   
       
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
     
       
     
   
  
     
   
      
      
 
       
     
AG ¶ 25 sets forth the following conditions that could raise security concerns and 
may be disqualifying in this case: 
(a)  any  substance misuse (see above definition);  
  
(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation,  
proc
essing, manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession of  
drug paraphernalia; and  
(f)  any illegal  drug use while granted access to classified information or  
holding a sensitive position.  
The evidence establishes AG ¶¶ 2 5(a) and 25(c). This shifts the burden to 
Applicant to mitigate the security concerns raised by his conduct. 
With respect to AG ¶ 25(f), the Appeal Board set forth the evidentiary requirements 
for the Government to establish application of that disqualifying condition in ISCR Case 
No. 22-01661 (App. Bd. Sep 21, 2023). The first element, access to classified information, 
requires proof of (1) national security eligibility ( i.e., a security clearance), (2) a signed 
nondisclosure agreement, and (3) “a need to know.” Although Department Counsel 
introduced evidence that Applicant met the eligibility requirement, there was no evidence 
addressing the other two requirements. Accordingly, the Government failed to establish 
the first element of AG ¶ 25(f) 
With respect to the second element of AG ¶ 25(f), holding a sensitive position, the 
Appeal Board quoted from Security Executive Agent Directive, ¶ D.8, which includes the 
following definition of the term “a sensitive position:” 
Any position within or in support of an agency in which the occupant could 
bring about, by virtue of the nature of the position, a material adverse effect 
on the national security regardless of whether the occupant had access to 
classified information . . . . 
Based upon my above findings, Applicant’s position with the Reserves at the time 
of his drug use was as part of the IRR. For understandable reasons, there was nothing in 
the record addressing the sensitivity of his position in the IRR in 2021 and 2022. The fact 
that Applicant held a security clearance at the time he was a member of the IRR does not 
establish, under the circumstances of this case, that he held a sensitive position. Also, it 
is possible that Applicant had rejoined a medical unit of the Reserves before he used 
marijuana in May 2022, cocaine in April 2022, or LSD in May 2022. B ut even then, the 
record does not address the sensitivity of that position, let alone unambiguously establish 
when Applicant transitioned from the IRR to the Army Reserve medical unit in 2022. 
Also, I also cannot conclude under the circumstances presented that Applicant’s 
admissions to the SOR Guideline H allegations relieved the Government of its burden of 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
     
  
 
        
  
  
 
   
     
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
     
     
   
     
  
 
 
     
  
    
    
    
proof under the circumstances presented by this case. He made those admissions when 
he was not represented by counsel, and when he received the benefit of legal advice, he 
believed the correct response to the SOR was to admit the drug use and deny that the 
use was while holding a sensitive position or a security clearance. Accordingly, I find that 
the Government has not met its burden to establish that Applicant used illegal drugs while 
granted access to classified information or holding a sensitive position. Therefore, AG ¶ 
25(f) does not apply. I note here my disapproval of Applicant’s hearing tactic of not alerting 
Department Counsel prior to the hearing of his intent to withdraw a material factual 
admission in his Answer. 
AG ¶ 26 of this guideline provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. 
I have considered all the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 26 and conclude that the 
following two conditions have possible application to the facts of this case: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or ha
 ppened  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur  or does not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability,  trustworthiness,  or good judgment;  and  
(b) the individual  ac knowledges  his or her drug involvement and substance  
misuse, provides  evidence of actions  taken to overcome the problem,  and  
has established a pattern of  abstinence, including, but not limited to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-usi ng associates and contacts;  
(2) changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were  
used;
 and  
(3) providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all  
drug i
nvolvement  and  substance misuse, acknowledging that  
any future involvement or misuse is grounds  for  revocation of  
national security eligibility.   
Appli
cant has not established mitigation under AG ¶ 26(a). His illegal drug use did 
not happen so long ago nor was it infrequent. At the time of his drug use during the period 
September 2021 to May 2022, he had been a member of the Reserves for several years. 
He knew better than to take recreational drugs. Moreover, his drug use was a little more 
than one year before he submitted the Questionnaire. Under the circumstances of this 
case, Applicant’s drug use continues to cast doubt on his current reliability, 
trustworthiness, or judgment. 
With appropriate legal advice, Applicant has checked the boxes to satisfy AG ¶ 26 
in theory. He has presented a signed statement of intent with all of the correct wording to 
address AG ¶ 26(b)(3). Shortly before the hearing, he took three online drug education 
classes. He claims he no longer associates with the people with whom he used drugs, 
but then he also claims he is unable to identify the friends and acquaintances with whom 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
    
         
     
  
    
    
  
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
      
 
   
     
      
   
 
  
 
 
 
he used drugs. At the time of the hearing, he was working in a foreign country far away 
from his home, but his home is still his home where he will return upon the completion of 
his temporary foreign work assignment. He has acknowledged his past illegal drug use 
and established a pattern of abstinence. However, the primary security concerns raised 
by Applicant’s drug use is not the risk of a recurrence of illegal drug use, but the security 
risks raised by his recent, unreliable behavior and poor judgment. The circumstances of 
this case render his mitigation under AG ¶ 26(b) to be inadequate to mitigate fully his drug 
use in light of my conclusion under AG ¶ 26(a) that his behavior continues to cast doubt 
on his reliability, trustworthiness, and judgment. 
Paragraph 3 (Guideline J, Criminal Conduct)  
The security concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 30 as follows: 
Criminal activity creates doubt about a person’s judgment, reliability, and  
trustworthiness. By its very nature, it calls into question a person’s ability or  
willingness to comply  with laws, rules,  and regulations.  
AG ¶ 31 describes five conditions that could raise security concerns under this 
guideline. The following condition is potentially applicable in this case and may be 
disqualifying: 
(b) evidence (including, but not limited to, a credible allegation, an 
admission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of  
whether the individual  was formally charged,  prosecuted, or convicted.   
Applicant’s illegal drug use violated federal and military criminal law. Each use was 
an instance of criminal conduct. The condition specifically states that the lack of charges 
or prosecution has no significance under this Guideline. The focus is on criminal conduct 
and what that establishes about the individual’s judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness. 
Accordingly, Applicant’s criminal conduct establishes AG ¶ 31(b) and shifts the burden to 
him to mitigate security concerns. 
AG ¶ 32 sets forth four mitigating conditions under Guideline J. The following two 
mitigating conditions have possible application in this case: 
(a) so much time has  elaps
 ed since the criminal behavior happened, or it  
happened under such unusual circumstances, that it is unlikely to recur and  
does not cast doubt on the individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, or good  
judgment; and  
(d) there is evidence of successful rehabilitation; including, but not limited  
to,
 the passage of time without recurrence of criminal activity, restitution,  
compliance with the terms of parole or  probation, job training or higher  
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
   
       
  
      
     
   
   
  
   
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
       
    
  
 
   
 
       
  
    
    
   
   
   
    
     
education,  good employment record,  or constructive community  
involvement.  
Neither mitigating condition has been established. AG ¶ 32(a) does not apply to 
the facts of Applicant’s criminal conduct for the same reasons that AG ¶ 26 (a) under 
Guideline H did not apply with respect to Applicant’s drug use. The criminal conduct is 
too recent to support a conclusion that Applicant’s actions do not cast doubt on his current 
reliability, trustworthiness, and judgment. Moreover, his testimony regarding the nature 
and extent of his criminal behavior and the unreliable testimony that he could not recall 
most of the basic details regarding his behavior raises s erious issues regarding his 
reliability and trustworthiness. This additional, unreliable behavior undercuts the 
mitigation value of all of Applicant ’s evidence supporting his claim of mitigation and 
rehabilitation, rendering AG ¶ 32(d) only partially satisfied. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for national security eligibility by considering the totality of the 
applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should 
consider the nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant national security 
eligibility must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the above whole-person factors and the potentially disqualifying and 
mitigating conditions in light of all pertinent facts and circumstances surrounding this 
case. I have given careful consideration to Applicant’s extensive mitigating and whole-
person evidence, and I acknowledge Applicant’s many accomplishments in both his 
military and civilian careers . However, his testimony at the hearing was highly 
problematic. I have outlined above some of the inconsistencies in his testimony. I found 
much more of his testimony to be unreliable and intended to minimize the derogatory 
information in the record. Based upon his demeanor at the hearing and the extraordinary 
vagueness of his testimony on critical factual issues, I left the hearing believing he would 
say anything to enhance his chances of a favorable ruling, including denying his role in 
the Reserves from the date of his separation from active duty in January 2020 until his 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
      
   
         
   
     
       
     
     
   
  
 
 
      
   
 
   
 
      
 
      
 
    
 
      
 
     
 
      
 
 
     
    
 
                                                  
 
 
 
 
 
reenlistment in 2023. The documentary evidence, including the summary of the Security 
Interview, clearly refute his attempt at the hearing to distance himself from the Reserves 
at a time he was engaged in illegal drug use. In reviewing the transcript of the hearing in 
the context of his statements during interviews and in writing, I conclude that Applicant 
lacks candor, integrity, and maturity. If he had testified openly, consistently, and candidly, 
with a clear recollection of his drug use, he might have been able to provide sufficient 
mitigating and whole-person evidence to mitigate the security concerns under Guidelines 
H and J. On the other hand, the security concerns raised by the residence of Applicant’s 
father in a country engaged in war with a significant military power with interests adverse 
to U.S. interests would likely be impossible to resolve, even with the utmost candor at the 
hearing. Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions an d doubts as to 
Applicant’s suitability for national security eligibility and a security clearance. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by ¶ E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  G
 uideline B:   AGAI
NST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph 1.a:   Against Applicant 
Subparagraphs 1.b an d 1.c:  For Applicant 
Paragraph 2, Guideline H:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  2.a  through 2.e:  Against Applicant 
Paragraph 3, Guideline J:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph 3.a:   Against Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant national security eligibility. 
Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
JOHN BAYARD GLENDON 
Administrative Judge 
20 