 
 
  
 
                                                              
           
          
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
      
 
 
 
      
          
         
     
  
      
  
 
          
         
      
       
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS  
In  the  matter of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR  Case No.  24-01019  
 )  
Applicant for Security Clearance  )  
Appearances  
For Government: Alison P. O’Connell, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
02/28/2025 
Decision  
LAFAYE, Gatha, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to provide sufficient evidence to mitigate security concerns raised 
under Guideline H (drug involvement and substance misuse) . Eligibility for access to 
classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on December 29, 2023. 
On August 30, 2024, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of Reasons 
(SOR) alleging security concerns under Guideline H. The DOD acted under Executive 
Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 
1960), as amended; DOD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security 
Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the 
adjudicative guidelines (AG) effective within the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR on September 27, 2024, and elected to have his case 
decided on the written record in lieu of a hearing. Department Counsel submitted the 
Government’s written case on November 19, 2024, including documents marked as Items 
1 and 2. On December 11, 2024, a complete copy of the file of relevant material (FORM) 
1 
 
 
 
 
            
         
  
 
         
      
       
      
 
      
        
      
          
   
 
       
           
          
      
 
 
 
       
        
       
         
    
 
           
   
 
       
    
  
 
was provided  to  Applicant,  who  was  given  an  opportunity  to  file  objections and  submit  
material to  refute, extenuate,  or mitigate  the  Government’s evidence. He   received  the  
FORM  on  December 11, 2024, and  did not  submit  a  response. The  case  was  assigned  
to  me on  February 18, 2025. Items  1  and 2  are admitted in evidence without  objection.   
Findings of Fact  
In his Answer, Applicant admitted all allegations in the SOR (SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 
1.c). His admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact. After careful review of the 
evidence, I make the following additional findings of fact. 
Applicant is 44 years old. He enrolled in college in September 1999, and earned 
a bachelor’s degree in engineering, in May 2004. In September 2004, he worked for a 
federal contractor for two months, providing support on a Federal Emergency 
Management Agency (FEMA) contract during the hurricane season. 
In July 200 6, Applicant accepted a full-time position, working as a controls 
engineer for a private company. In March 2017, he was p romoted to power systems 
project engineer, where he remains a full-time employee. In December 2023, Applicant 
began working as a part-time consultant with the defense contractor currently sponsoring 
his security clearance application. 
Applicant married in 2008. He and his wife welcomed four children: three sons, 
born in 2011, 2012, and 2015; and a daughter born in 2018. In about 2021, their second 
child passed away. Both Applicant and his wife have experienced extended periods of 
depression and anxiety following the death of their child. (Items 1,2) 
Applicant completed  his first SCA  in  December 2023,  and  responded  “yes” to   
questions in Section  23, Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug  Activity, which  asked  whether, in the  
last  seven  years, he  had  illegally used  any drugs or controlled  substances; and  whether  
he  intended  to  use  this  drug  or controlled  substance  in  the  future.  Applicant admitted  he  
illegally used  marijuana  from  April 2021  to  December 2023, and commented  as follows:  
In accordance [with] the recommendation of my board -certified medical 
physician and provided by a [state] licensed dispensary to me , a [state ] 
board of pharmacy registered cannabis patient: since being licensed in the 
spring of 2021 I have consumed a low dosage edible THC for management 
of PTSD anxiety, approximately 2 times/month. (Item 1 at 28-29) 
He also responded “yes” to the question of whether he intend s to use this drug or 
controlled substance in the future, explaining: 
I intend to continue to follow the recommendations of my board -certified 
medical physician for my healthcare, whereby THC usage and distribution 
is legal in [state]. (Id.) 
2 
 
 
       
            
   
        
      
 
   
       
     
     
       
    
     
  
  
          
      
       
 
 
        
          
           
       
       
      
       
 
       
        
 
         
      
       
    
 
           
   
         
      
         
    
 
 
Under Guideline H, the SOR allege s that Applicant used marijuana from about 
April 2021 to present (SOR ¶ 1.a); he purchased marijuana from April 2021 to present 
(SOR ¶ 1.b); and he intends to continue using marijuana in the future (SOR ¶ 1.c). In his 
answer, Applicant admitted all allegations, and submitted a copy of the state license 
authorizing him to purchase and use marijuana. He commented as follows: 
I admit these claims are true. However, I don’t believe they apply to 
Guideline H. [State law] legalizes board-certified medical doctors to certify 
patients’ use of cannabis products, i.e. tetrahydrocannabinol . I have only 
ever acquired and used THC products by my doctor’s certification, after 
licensed by first the [state] department of health and later by the [state] 
cannabis control authority, purchasing only from state -certified 
dispensaries, legally, as outlined by my state, and only following the advice 
of my doctor. (SOR Answer) 
Applicant also said he is a “law-abiding citizen” who had “nothing to hide.” His 
cannabis license, which was issued by his state on March 27, 2021, and expired April 30, 
2022, listed the “license type” as a “registered patient for cannabis oil.” (Id.) 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” EO 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
decision. An a dministrative judge must consider all available and reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
3 
 
 
        
             
         
        
  
 
    
    
        
        
      
         
       
         
 
 
      
         
          
     
           
         
 
 
 
 
       
   
 
         
         
       
       
     
     
        
       
        
   
 
              
  
 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” EO 10865 § 7. 
Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant has 
not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have established 
for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for acc ess to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan at 531. “Substantial 
evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. Washington 
Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines presume a 
nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria listed 
therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 15-01253 at 3 (App. 
Bd. Apr. 20, 2016). 
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition by substantial 
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it 
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue his security clearance.” 
ISCR Case No. 01 -20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance 
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Egan at 531. See also AG 
¶ 2(b). 
Analysis  
Guideline H, Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse  
The security concern for drug involvement and substance misuse is described in 
AG ¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non -prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual's reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person's ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any "controlled substance" as 
defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in 
this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
AG ¶ 25 describes conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying. Those that are potentially applicable include: 
AG ¶  25(a): any substance  misuse (see  above definition);  
4 
 
 
 
 
          
             
     
 
   
 
 
         
       
    
         
         
    
        
   
 
         
          
          
    
 
           
        
       
 
 
 
 
 
AG ¶  25(c): illegal possession  of a  controlled  substance, including  
cultivation, processing, manufacture, purchase, sale, or distribution; or  
possession of drug paraphernalia; and  
AG ¶  25(g):  expressed  intent to  continue  drug  involvement and  substance  
misuse,  or failure to  clearly and  convincingly  commit to  discontinue  such  
misuse.  
Applicant’s admissions and the evidence in this case establish that he purchased 
and used marijuana, with the intent to continue purchasing and using marijuana in the 
future. AG ¶¶ 25(a), 25(c), and 25(g) apply. 
The following mitigating condition is potentially applicable: 
AG ¶  26(a): the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or  
happened  under such  circumstances that it is  unlikely to  recur or does not  
cast doubt  on  the  individual's current  reliability, trustworthiness, or good  
judgment.  
AG ¶ 26(a) is not established. Applicant began purchasing and using marijuana in 
April 2021, after the death of his child, a difficult circumstance for any parent . He 
undoubtedly suffered unimaginable emotional pai n, sought medical advice, and his 
physician recommended and prescribed marijuana to help manage his symptoms of 
depression and anxiety. After satisfying his state’s marijuana licensing requirements, he 
has continued to use marijuana about twice per month since he started in April 2021. He 
purchases marijuana once every few months from a state-licensed dispensary, and he 
intends to follow this pattern of purchasing and using marijuana indefinitely. 
Applicant had the opportunity to explore alternative treatment options with his 
physician to avoid the use of marijuana to treat his symptoms; he also had the opportunity 
to cease purchasing and using marijuana; and to submit the discovered information with 
his answer to the SOR or as evidence in this FORM. However, he did not do so. 
Applicant’s purchase and use of illegal drugs, and his intent to continue to do so 
into the indefinite future raise questions and doubts about his judgment, reliability, 
trustworthiness, and overall willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations . He 
has not mitigated the security concerns raised by his conduct. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the  whole-person  concept,  the  administrative judge  must  evaluate  an  
applicant’s eligibility for a  security clearance  by considering  the  totality of the  applicant’s  
conduct and  all  relevant circumstances.  The  administrative  judge  should  consider the  
nine  adjudicative  process factors listed at AG  ¶ 2(d):  
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
5 
 
 
 
           
  
        
         
 
 
        
    
 
   
 
    
    
 
           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  
and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct;  
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.  
I have incorporated my comments under Guideline H in my whole-person analysis 
and applied the adjudicative factors in AG ¶ 2(d), above. After weighing the disqualifying 
and mitigating conditions under Guideline H and evaluating all evidence in the whole -
person context, I conclude Applicant has failed to mitigate Guideline H security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline H:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 1.a  - 1.c:  Against Applicant 
Conclusion  
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue Applicant’s 
eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Gatha LaFaye 
Administrative Judge 
6 