 
 
 
 
  
 
 
    
  
      
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
    
   
 
 
     
     
     
  
 
 
   
   
  
    
     
  
 
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPA
RTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-02143 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: George Hawkins, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
12/17/2025 
Decision 
CEFOLA, Richard A., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant mitigated the security concerns under Guidelines B (foreign influence); 
however, she did not mitigate the security concern under Guideline H (drug involvement 
and substance misuse). Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
On December 20, 2024, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement 
of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guidelines H and B. 
Applicant responded to the SOR on February 4, 202 5, and requested a decision based 
on the written record in lieu of a hearing. 
The Government’s written case was submitted on February 25, 2025. A complete 
copy of the file of relevant material (FORM) was provided to Applicant, who was 
afforded an opportunity to file objections and submit material to refute, extenuate, or 
mitigate the security concerns. This included a request for Administrative Notice for both 
Taiwan and China. Applicant received the FORM and submitted a response. The 
Governments exhibits included in the FORM as well as the Applicant’s response are 
admitted in evidence without objection. 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
  
  
 
 
      
 
   
 
 
 
  
     
   
  
  
       
   
   
 
 
   
      
    
  
 
 
   
  
 
      
   
Department Counsel requested that I take administrative notice of certain facts 
about Taiwan and China. Without objection, I have taken administrative notice of the 
facts contained in the request. The facts are summarized in the written request and will 
not be repeated verbatim in this decision. Of particular note is that China has continued 
to increase diplomatic, political, and military pressure against Taiwan and that it will 
continue to expand it global intelligence posture to advance its interests. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 28- year-old employee of a defense contractor. She earned dual 
bachelor’s degrees in 2018 from the University of California, Irvine. She is married with 
no children. She is applying for a security clearance for the first time. (Item 3) 
In her interrogatory response, Applicant  admitted  marijuana use daily from April 
2013 to about May 2024,  a period of over 10 years.  In her response to the SOR, she  
admitted t o purchasing  marijuana with varying frequency  from  about April 2013 t o about  
July 2018.  She also admitted to using lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) with varying  
frequency  between February 2015 to about  April 2023 and using methylenedioxy  
methamphetamine (MDMA) twice. In her interrogatory response,  Applicant stated that  
she did not intend to use any illegal drug in the future ,  but that she still associates with  
those who use illegal  substances and  attends events  where  they are present. (Items 2-
4)  
In her Answer, Applicant admitted her parents and brother are citizens of Taiwan, 
and that her grandmother is a citizen and resident of Taiwan. Applicant’s parents and 
brother are permanent residents of the U.S., and she last had contact with them in 
August of 2024. She has contact with her grandmother once a month via video chat. “In 
her Answer, Applicant stated that she is loyal to the United States and that my family 
does not pose as a conflict of interest to my loyalty to the Unites States . . . . Currently 
my brother and my mother are going through the US citizenship process, and my father 
has plans to pursue citizenship in the future as well.” (Item 4, Applicant’s Answer) 
Policies  
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines (AG ), which became 
effective on June 8, 2017. 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
    
  
 
 
 
   
     
 
      
     
  
    
     
 
    
  
    
    
   
      
   
   
 
 
   
  
     
  
 
 
 
       
   
  
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According 
to AG ¶ 2(c), the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables 
known as the “whole -person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all 
available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, 
or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel .” The 
applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation of potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline H, Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse  
The security concern for drug involvement and substance misuse is set out in AG 
¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of  
prescription  and non-prescription drugs, and  the use of other substances  
that  cause physical or  mental  impairment or are used in a manner  
3 
 
 
 
 
   
    
   
  
 
  
 
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
     
  
   
 
  
 
   
  
      
 
  
   
 
   
   
  
   
 
 
    
   
   
 
 
 
  
 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior 
may lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any “controlled substance” 
as defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term 
adopted in this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 25. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) any substance mi
 suse (see ab ove definition);  and  
(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation,             
processing, manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession of  
drug paraphernalia.  
On Oct
ober 25, 2014, the Director of National Intelligence ( the Security 
Executive Agent (SecEA) ) issued DNI Memorandum ES 2014- 00674, 
“Adherence to Federal Laws Prohibiting Marijuana Use,” which states: 
[C]hanges to state laws and the laws of the District of Columbia pertaining 
to marijuana use do not alter the existing National Security Adjudicative 
Guidelines . . . . An individual’s disregard of federal law pertaining to the 
use, sale, or manufacture of marijuana remains adjudicatively relevant in 
national security determinations. As always, adjudicative authorities are 
expected to evaluate claimed or developed use of, or involvement with, 
marijuana using the current adjudicative criteria. The adjudicative authority 
must determine if the use of, or involvement with, marijuana raises 
questions about the individual’s judgment, reliability, trustworthiness, and 
willingness to comply with law, rules, and regulations, including federal 
laws, when making eligibility decisions of persons proposed for, or 
occupying, sensitive national security positions. 
On December 21, 2021, the SecEA promulgated clarifying guidance concerning 
marijuana-related issues in security clearance adjudications. It states in pertinent part: 
[Federal] agencies are instructed that prior recreational marijuana use by 
an individual may be relevant to adjudications but not determinative. The 
SecEA has provided direction in [the adjudicative guidelines] to agencies 
that requires them to use a “whole- person concept.” This requires 
adjudicators to carefully weigh a number of variables in an individual’s life 
to determine whether that individual’s behavior raises a security concern, if 
at all, and whether that concern has been mitigated such that the individual 
may now receive a favorable adjudicative determination. Relevant 
4 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
 
    
  
   
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
     
      
   
 
     
mitigations include, but are not limited to, frequency of use and whether 
the individual can demonstrate that future use is unlikely to recur, including 
by signing an attestation or other such appropriate mitigation. Additionally, 
in light of the long- standing federal law and policy prohibiting illegal drug 
use while occupying a sensitive position or holding a security clearance, 
agencies are encouraged to advise prospective national security workforce 
employees that they should refrain from any future marijuana use upon 
initiation of the national security vetting process, which commences once 
the individual signs the certification contained in the Standard Form 86 
(SF-86), Questionnaire for National Security Positions. 
Applicant admitted having used marijuana daily from about April 2013 to about 
May 2024 . She also admitted to purchasing marijuana and using LSD with varying 
frequency and MDMA twice. AG ¶¶ 25(a) and (c) are applicable. 
AG ¶ 26 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. The following 
are potentially applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or ha
 ppened  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur  or does not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability,  trustworthiness,  or good judgment;  
and  
(b) the individual acknowledges  his  or her drug involvement  and  
substance misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this  
problem,  and has  established a pattern of  abstinence, including,  but not  
limited to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-usi ng associates and contacts;  
(2) changing or  avoi ding the environment where drugs were used;  
and  
(3) providing a signed statement  of i ntent to abstain from  all drug  
involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future  
involvement  or misuse is grounds for revocation of national  security  
eligibility.   
There i
s no evidence of any illegal drug use after May 2024. Applicant stated she 
did not intend to use and illegal drugs in the future even though she still associates with 
those who do and attends events where drugs are used. Her intent not to use illegal 
drugs in the future is a positive step. However, Applicant used marijuana daily for over 
ten years, which is over 3,600 times and purchased it with varying frequency for over 
five. She has also used LSD with varying frequency over a nine- year period of time and 
used MDMA twice. There is no “bright-line” rule for when conduct is recent. AG ¶ 2(b) 
5 
 
 
 
  
 
        
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
    
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
 
  
    
 
 
 
    
     
     
    
 
 
 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” With additional time without 
illegal drug use, Applicant may warrant a security clearance. I am not convinced that 
she is there yet. None of the mitigating conditions are sufficiently applicable to 
overcome concerns about Applicant’s drug use, reliability, trustworthiness, and 
judgment. 
Guideline B, Foreign Influence  
The security concern for foreign influence is set out in AG ¶ 6: 
Foreign contacts and interests, including, but not limited to, business, 
financial, and property interests, are a national security concern if they 
result in divided allegiance. They may also be a national security concern 
if they create circumstances in which the individual may be manipulated or 
induced to help a foreign person, group, organization, or government in a 
way inconsistent with U.S. interests or otherwise made vulnerable to 
pressure or coercion by any foreign interest. Assessment of foreign 
contacts and interests should consider the country in which the foreign 
contact or interest is located, including, but not limited to, considerations 
such as whether it is known to target U.S. citizens to obtain classified or 
sensitive information or is associated with a risk of terrorism. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 7. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) contact, regardless of  me
 thod, with a foreign family  member, business  
or professional  associate, friend, or other person who is a citizen of or  
resident in a foreign country if  that  contact  creates a heightened risk of  
foreign exploitation,  inducement, manipulation,  pressure, or  coercion;  and   
(b) connections to a foreign person, group, government, or country that  
cr
eate a potential conflict of interest between the individual's obligation to  
protect classified or sensitive information or  technology  and the  
individual’s  desire to help a foreign person, group,  or country  by providing  
that information or technology.   
Appli
cants’ parents and brother are citizens of Taiwan, and her grandmother is a 
citizen and resident of Taiwan. Applicant’s relationship with both creates a potential 
conflict of interest and, given the country’s heightened risk of foreign exploitation, 
inducement, manipulation, pressure, and coercion, AG ¶¶ 7(a) and 7(b) are applicable. 
6 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
   
 
 
   
  
   
Conditions that could mitigate foreign influence security concerns are provided 
under AG ¶ 8. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a) the nature of  the relationships with foreign persons, the country in  
which these persons  are located, or the positions or  activities of those  
persons in that country are such that it is unlikely the individual  will be 
placed in a position of  having to choose between the interests of a foreign  
individual,  group, organization, or  government and the interests of the  
United States;  and  
(b) there is no conflict  of i nterest, either because the individual’s sense of  
loyalty or obligation to the foreign person, or allegiance to the group,  
government,  or country is so minimal,  or the  individual  has such deep and  
longstanding relationships and loyalties in the United States, that the  
individual can be expected to resolve any conflict of interes t in favor of the  
U.S. interest.  
Applicants’ parents and brother may  be citizens of Taiwan, but they  are permeant  
U.S. residents.  Her brother  and mother are in t  he process of applying for  U.S.  
citizenship and her father plans on doing so in the future. Applicant  communicates  with  
her grandmother who is a citizen and resident of Taiwan once a month by video chat.   
Based on the developed record of  evidence  in this case,  it is unlikely  she  will be placed  
in a position of having to choose between the interests  of  a foreign individual, group,  
organization, or government  and the interests of the United States . AG ¶¶ 8(a)  and  8(b)  
are applicable.  
W
hole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent  to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of  
rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation  
for the conduct; (8) the potential for  pressure, coercion, exploitation,  or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. I considered the 
7 
 
 
 
  
  
     
 
    
   
    
     
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
___________________ 
potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and 
circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guidelines H and B in my whole-person analysis. 
Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts about 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. Even though Applicant did 
mitigate the security concerns under Guideline B (foreign influence) , she did not 
mitigate the security concerns under Guideline H ( drug involvement and substance 
misuse). 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline H:  
  Against Applicant  
Subparagraph 1.a  -1. d:  Against  Applicant   
Paragraph 2, Guideline B:   For Applicant  
Subparagraph 1.a  -1. c:  For Applicant   
Conclusion  
It is
 not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for 
a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Richard A. Cefola 
Administrative Judge 
8 