 
 
  
 
  
        
         
           
             
 
 
  
  
                   
   
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
   
    
 
  
  
    
  
  
    
    
     
     
  
  
 
  
  
  
___________ 
___________ 
DEPART
MENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance  
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 24-01841 
Appearances  
For Government: Cynthia Ruckno, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
11/21/2025 
Decision 
HARVEY, Mark, Administrative Judge: 
Security concerns arising under Guidelines J (criminal conduct) and E (personal 
conduct) are mitigated; however, Guideline G (alcohol consumption) security concerns 
are not mitigated. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On January 28, 2022 , Applicant completed and signed a security clearance 
application (SCA). (Government Exhibit (GE) 1) On January 2, 2025, the Defense 
Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) issued a statement of reasons (SOR) 
to Applicant under Executive O rder (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classifie d 
Information within Industry, February 20, 1960; Department of Defense ( DOD) Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (Directive), 
January 2, 1992; and Security Executive Agent Directive 4, establishing in Appendix A 
the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to 
Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AGs), effective June 8, 
2017. (Hearing Exhibit (HE) 2) 
The SOR detailed reasons why the DCSA did not find under the Directive that it is 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant or continue a security 
clearance for Applicant and referr ed the case to an administrative judge to determine 
 
 
   
      
     
      
 
    
    
   
 
   
 
  
   
   
        
   
     
    
       
 
 
  
 
 
       
     
    
 
      
 
  
  
     
   
     
    
        
 
  
 
       
  
   
   
  
 
whether a clearance should be granted, continued, denied, or revoked. Specifically, the 
SOR set forth security concerns arising under Guidelines G, J, and E. (HE 2) On January 
23, 2025, Applicant provided a response to the SOR and requested a hearing. (HE 3) On 
February 19, 2025, Department Counsel was ready to proceed. 
On June 18, 2025, the case was assigned to me. On June 25, 2025, the Defense 
Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a notice s cheduling the hearing for July 
31, 2025. (HE 1) The hearing was held as scheduled. 
Department Counsel offered 14 exhibits into evidence; Applicant offered 6 exhibits 
into evidence; there were no objections, except to GE 3; and all proffered exhibits were 
admitted into evidence. (Tr. 17-24; GE 1-GE 14; Applicant Exhibit (AE) A-AE F) Applicant 
expressed some concerns about the contents of GE 3, a psychological report from Dr. S; 
however, those comments go to the weight and not the admissibility of GE 3. (Tr. 22) On 
August 12, 2025, DOHA received a transcript of the hearing. Six post-hearing exhibits 
were received from Applicant on September 29, 2025, and admitted without objection. 
(AE G-AE L) The record closed on September 30, 2025. (Tr. 76, 82) On October 10, 2025, 
a request for a technical review was received from Applicant; however, it was not admitted 
because it was probably sent by mistake. (AE M) It is attached to the record. 
Some details were excluded to protect Applicant’s right to privacy. Specific 
information is available in the cited exhibits and transcript. 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s SOR response, she admitted the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a through 
1.j, 2.a, and 3.a. She also provided comments and clarifications. Her admissions are 
accepted as findings of fact. 
Applicant is 54 years old, and she has worked as a project analyst for three and a 
half years. (Tr. 9-10) In 1989, she graduated from high school, and in 1994, she received 
a bachelor’s degree in political science. (Tr. 8 -9) She needs three more credits to 
complete her master’s degree in health policy management. (Tr. 9) She has four 
professional certifications. (AE A at 3) She has never married, and she does not have any 
children. (Tr. 10) She has never served in the military. (Tr. 10) She disclosed her criminal 
charges and convic tions on her SCA. (GE 1 at 37 -43) In the 2003 to 2005 period, she 
was a nationally ranked athlete in her sport, and she won three national titles. (AE A) She 
indicated she was diagnosed with “very mild” bipolar mood disorder in 2017. Id. at 36. 
Applicant provided information about her alcohol abuse as follows: 
In the summer of 2010 I had my first DUI and lost my license for 3 months. 
Until that point, I’d never had any interaction with the law. To me, this 
marked the beginning of a downward spiral lasting 8 years. I was dealing 
with aging parents, a severely mentally ill sibling, and an unfamiliar lack of 
personal and professional identity. In April of 2011, I was laid off from my 
job due to the economy which added additional stress. This contributed to 
2 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
    
     
  
 
 
    
  
 
  
  
   
 
     
 
  
 
   
     
   
   
  
 
   
    
     
    
   
   
  
 
    
 
 
   
  
the instability I was already feeling, and compounded issues as I struggled 
to navigate the uncertainty of my professional future and an unstable job 
market. 
In early 2012 I saw things slip further. My parents were aged 76 and 75 at 
the time. My mother suffered from advanced Parkinson’s Disease 
(diagnosed for over 15 years at that point) and we had recently learned that 
my father’s leukemia had returned (Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia). As I 
watched my father’s health decline, I received a 2nd and 3rd DUI in rapid 
succession that summer (June and August 2012). My father passed away 
shortly after (October 2012) and we moved my mother into Assisted Living. 
Losing my father was absolutely devastating to me as he was my closest 
confidant and support. The loss was profound and I did not handle it well. 
We also moved my oldest brother (who suffers from severe mental illness) 
into a group home. It’s more than apparent that I didn’t handle the stress of 
these events well, and overdrinking compounded my problems making 
them worse. This was accompanied by poor life choices that carried serious 
legal consequences. The 2nd and 3rd DUIs caused me to lose my license 
for 3 full years. Not only did this create major barriers professionally, not 
having a license and car in a rural state [state omitted] produced obstacles 
beyond driving. I ended up dropping out of Graduate School in early 2013, 
as I was not in a state to complete the coursework. (AE A at 1-2) 
Applicant’s personal statement provides additional details about her background, 
life experiences, and plans. (AE A) 
Alcohol consumption, criminal conduct, and personal  conduct  
SOR ¶ 1 .a alleges that in June 2024, a licensed psychologist, Dr. S, diagnosed 
Applicant with alcohol use disorder, moderate, in full remission. Dr. S did not give her a 
favorable prognosis. Dr. S had the information from DC SA about her arrests and 
convictions; however, t here is no evidence that Dr. S had the police reports from her 
alcohol-related driving arrests.  
Dr. S also diagnosed Applicant with major depressive disorder, recurrent, 
moderate, with anxious distress, in full remission, and alcohol use disorder, moderate, in 
full remission. (GE 3 at 7) He indicated her current level of alcohol consumption was as 
follows, “She did not practice abstinence after 2018 but limited her drinking to social 
events or gatherings where she would drink 1-2 glasses of wine. She currently drinks on 
the weekends and the last time she was intoxicated was on her birthday.” (GE 3 at 2) Dr. 
S’s diagnostic impression included the following comment: 
[Applicant] has been charged in 4 alcohol -related incidents and 1 felony 
during the span of 8 years (2010-2018). Based upon her reporting and the 
information within her case paperwork, it is clear that she met criteria for an 
alcohol use disorder during that time. She also experienced symptoms of 
depression and anxiety that ran concurrent to that timeframe and were likely 
3 
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
     
 
  
  
   
   
    
    
 
   
    
    
 
   
  
  
 
   
     
 
    
 
    
 
  
   
    
      
  
  
 
   
   
   
   
    
  
  
 
comorbidly related to her alcohol use. There is mention of her possibly 
suffering from a bipolar disorder in her medical record, but she denied the 
most classic symptoms of mania and does not appear to have ever suffered 
from a discreet manic episode. (GE 3 at 6) 
Dr. S made the following comments in his prognosis: 
[Applicant] has shown marked improvement since approximately 2019 that 
coincides with her gaining meaningful employment, reducing her alcohol 
use, and engaging with her social environment. As a result of these positive 
events, and her adherence to her psychiatric medication regimen, her 
psychological health appears to be relatively stable. However, she 
continues to endorse a pattern of alcohol use that includes drinking to 
intoxication. There does not appear to be any functional impairment from 
her current drinking pattern, but it is still worthy of concern and illustrates a 
lack of judgment for her to continue drinking. [Applicant] has never 
successfully completed a period of sustained abstinence despite multiple 
recommendations for her to abstain from drinking which brings the concern 
that her previous pattern of problematic alcohol use could easily return 
should she experience negative situations or a destabilizing event. The fact 
that the major problems in her life have either involved or been the result of 
alcohol use again highlights a flaw within her judgment and places her at 
risk for future decompensation. As such, the Evaluator is unable to provide 
a favorable recommendation at this time. Consideration for a favorable 
recommendation would require [Applicant] to continue to show stability in 
all relevant areas while also completing a period of sustained abstinence (1 
year or more) from any alcohol or drug use. (GE 3 at 7) 
As for Dr. S’s evaluation, Applicant said: 
My interview with Dr. [S] was over a year ago now. I agree with his 
assessment that I have a history of exercising poor judgement around 
alcohol use, and this has negatively impacted my life in the past. However, 
I would assert that he is incorrect in his analysis that I am at risk for future 
“decompensation”, and that I “endorse a pattern of alcohol use”. I do, and 
have, practiced sobriety. I provided Dr. [S] with full access to my medical 
records through my treating provider at [V] to encourage review of 
medical/psychiatric records from my current treating clinician(s) who have 
provided care for me consistently since 2017. They have familiarity with my 
historic state, my present state, and my general psychiatric well -being. I 
don’t believe that one -time zo om meeting can offer the same insight – 
particularly when we covered 53 years of my life in a sub- 2 hour session. I 
have completed an extended period of total abstinence. I am also confused 
with Dr. [S’s] statement that I’m “in full remission” while also stating “at risk 
for decompensation”. Those two terms seem at odds with each other. (AE 
A at 3-4) 
4 
 
 
   
    
     
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
  
    
 
  
   
Department Counsel provided a copy of The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of 
Mental Disorders 5th Edition (DSM 5) related to alcohol-use disorder. (GE 13) The DSM 
5 criteria for diagnosis of alcohol -use disorder for mild (presence of 2- 3 symptoms), 
moderate (presence of 4- 5 symptoms), and severe (presence of 6 or more symptoms) 
are as follows: 
A. A problematic  patt
 ern of  alcohol use leading to clinically significant  
impairment or  distress  as  manifested by at  least two of the following,  
occurring within a 12-month period:  
1. Alcohol is  oft en taken in larger amounts or  over a longer period than was  
intended.  
2. There is a persistent desire or unsuccessful efforts to cut down or  cont rol  
alcohol use.  
3. A great deal  of t ime is spent in activities necessary to obtain alcohol, use  
alcohol, or recover from its effects.  
4. Craving, or a strong desire or  urge t o use alcohol.  
5. Recurrent alcohol use resulting in a failure to fulfill major role obligations  
at w
ork, school,  or home.  
6. Continued alcohol  use des pite having persistent or recurrent social or  
interpersonal problems caused or  exacerbated by the effects of alcohol.  
7. Important social, occupational, or recreational  act ivities  are given up or  
reduced because of alcohol  use.  
8. Recurrent alcohol  us e in situations in which it is physically hazardous.  
9.  Alcohol use is continued despite knowledge of having a persistent or  
r
ecurrent  physical  or  psychological problem that is likely to have been  
caused or exacerbated by alcohol.  
10. Tolerance, as  defi ned by either of  the following:  
a. A need for  mar kedly increased amounts of alcohol to achieve  
intoxication or desired effect.  
b. A  markedly diminished effect with continued use of the same  
am
ount  of alcohol.  
11.  Withdrawal, as manifested by either of  th e following:  
a. The characteristic withdrawal syndrome for alcohol (refer to Criteria  
A an
d B  of the criteria  set for  alcohol withdrawal, pp. 499-500).  
b. Alcohol (or a closely related substance, such as a benzodiazepine)  
is
 taken to relieve or  avoid withdrawal symptoms  (GE 13 at 2-3)   
DSM 5 de
fines early and sustained remission as follows: 
In early remission: After full criteria for alcohol use disorder were previously 
met, none of the criteria for alcohol use disorder have been met for at least 
3 months but for less than 12 months (with the exception that Criterion A4, 
“Craving, or a strong desire or urge to use alcohol,” may be met). 
In sustained remission: After full criteria for alcohol use disorder were 
previously met, none of the criteria for alcohol use disorder have been met 
5 
 
 
 
   
      
      
    
     
  
   
  
    
  
     
   
      
  
 
     
       
  
      
  
    
  
 
 
    
    
   
    
   
      
      
     
 
  
  
  
      
  
 
        
   
    
    
at any time during a period of 12 months  or longer (with the exception that  
Criterion A4, “Craving, or a strong desire or  urge to use alcohol,”  may be  
met).  (GE 13 at 3)                   
SOR ¶ 1.b alleges from about 1983 until at least August 2023, Applicant consumed 
alcohol, at times in excess and to the point of intoxication. Applicant’s longest period of 
sobriety from 2010 to 2018 was about three months. (Tr. 61) She said her longest period 
of sobriety in the last 10 years was about 12 months in the 2022 to 2023 period. (Tr. 66) 
She consumes alcohol during special events . (Tr. 70 -71) On November 20, 2024, 
Applicant completed DOHA interrogatories, and she stated she consumes alcohol twice 
a month; she usually consumes two drinks; her most recent alcohol consumption was on 
November 9, 2024; and she was most recently intoxicated in August 2023. (GE 4 at 18) 
At her hearing, she made a statement, which was consistent with her response to DOHA 
interrogatories. She said she has not consumed any alcohol since her birthday in 
November of 2024, a period of eight months , and she has not been intox icated since 
August of 2023. (Tr. 61, 66-67; GE 4) She is not in alcohol treatment. (Tr. 61) She see s 
a psychiatrist every two months for medication management. (Tr. 61, 65) She has alcohol 
in her residence; however, it is her boyfriend’s alcohol. (Tr. 69) 
SOR ¶ 1.c alleges from about October 2018, Applicant was charged with and found 
guilty of profane swearing and public intoxication. In 2018, she was in a serious bicycle 
accident; she was unable to work; and she was financially stressed. (Tr. 54) She had a 
“pretty bad period of depression and anxiety -- massive anxiety.” (Tr. 55) She was 
intoxicated and yelling. (Tr. 56) She said she got into the back of her car and went to 
sleep. (Tr. 56) The police arrived and took her into custody. (Tr. 56- 57) Her probation 
officer required her to continue in alcohol counseling, and she checked in with him more 
frequently. (Tr. 57-58) 
SOR ¶ 1.d alleges in about January 2017, Applicant was charged with and pleaded 
guilty to felony conspiracy to obstruct justice. (GE 5) She was sentenced to a fine and five 
years of probation. (GE 4 at 4 ; GE 5 ) In agreeing to a reduction in sentence, the 
prosecutor noted her history of alcohol abuse, which, in part, appeared related to h er 
“decision to participate in the instant offense. . . .” (GE 5) A special condition of her 
probation was that she was not to drink alcohol. Applicant was discharged from probation 
around 2020 or 2021 because the goals of probation were achieved. (Tr. 59; GE 2 at 10) 
Conspiracy to obstruct justice is a felony offense. (Tr. 49) 
Applicant provided the facts supporting the indictment at her hearing. Applicant’s 
boyfriend was indicted and ordered not to leave the state where the indictment was 
issued. (Tr. 46) He did not tell Applicant about the indictment or restrictions on his 
movements. (Tr. 46) Applicant and her boyfriend left the state. (Tr. 47) W hen they 
returned, he asked her to write an affidavit to the authorities falsely stating he did not 
leave the state. (Tr. 47) She was aware that he was charged when she signed the 
affidavit. (Tr. 48) The affidavit said it was an earlier trip before he was restricted if people 
saw pictures. (Tr. 48 -49) The authorities saw a picture from their trip on her and her 
boyfriend’s social media. The authorities found video of her and her boyfriend in another 
state at the time he was under travel restrictions . (Tr. 49; GE 4 at 4 ) Her boyfriend was 
6 
 
 
  
 
 
     
      
     
  
 
     
   
    
   
   
 
   
  
    
   
   
  
 
 
 
        
   
     
        
    
     
    
   
  
    
   
sentenced to prison for 120 months for fraud and other offenses. (GE 5) There is no 
evidence Applicant had any connection to her boyfriend’s fraud. 
SOR ¶ 1.e alleges and Applicant admitted in about September 2017, she received 
court-ordered mental health and substance abuse treatment. (HE 3) She was diagnosed 
with Alcohol Use Disorder, Severe. (HE 3) She was advised to remain abstinent from 
alcohol. (HE 3) 
SOR ¶ 1. f alleges Applicant violated the terms of her probation as described in 
SOR ¶ 1.d. above, when she continued to consume alcohol, and when she was arrested 
for public intoxication as described in SOR ¶ 1.c. above. Applicant occasionally consumed 
alcohol during the probation period; however, she said she considerably reduced her level 
of alcohol consumption after she was charged with conspiracy to obstruct justice. (Tr. 52) 
In 2013, Applicant successfully completed a 28- day alcohol counseling and 
treatment program. (Tr. 64) She resumed alcohol consumption shortly after completion 
of the program in 2013. From about 2017 to early 2019, Applicant had an ignition interlock 
device with a camera on her vehicle for about two years , and she attended an alcohol 
group therapy program two or three nights a week after work. (Tr. 52- 54) From 2019 to 
2020, she received individual therapy. (Tr. 63) Since 2020, she has primarily received 
medication management. (Tr. 64) 
SOR ¶¶  1.g  and 1.h allege in about  May  of 2012 and August  of 2012,  Applicant  
was  charged with  operating  a motor vehicle  while under the  influence of alcohol  (OUI). 
(GE 2 at 17 -19)  For her May 11,  2012  OUI, she  was  found guilty  of  OUI.  (GE 11 at  10)  
She consumed some alcohol,  and drove to purchase a sandwich. (Tr. 36)  At her  hearing,  
she said she shut  her vehicle engine off and was sleeping for about 20 minutes. (Tr. 36-
37)  However, the police report states that Applicant’s vehicle was in a parking lot with the  
lights on and the engine was running. (GE 10 at  28) Applicant was passed out “behind  
the wheel” with her seatbelt on.  Id. The police officer  had to bang on the w indow more  
than once with his flashlight  before she groggily responded.  Id. The vehicle keys were in 
the ignition. (Tr. 36) She told t he police officer  she had not been drinking.  (Tr.  37; GE 10 
at 28-29) Her breathalyzer blood alcohol-content (BAC)  was .27 percent. (GE 10 at 26,  
30)  She was sentenced on November 29, 2012, to a $1,000 fine,  7 days incarceration,  
and suspension of  her  driver’s license for  three years. (GE 11 at 10)   
Applicant’s August of 2012 OUI violated a condition of release from her May of 
2012 OUI. Her OUIs in May of 2012 and August of 2012 were tried in the same time 
frame. (Tr. 38) Applicant remembered one of her breathalyzer test results, and she said 
her BAC was about .20 percent. (Tr. 69) For the August of 2012 charge of OUI, her BAC 
was .15 percent. (GE 10 at 77, 82) On December 18, 2012, she was found guilty of OUI 
and the probation violation charge was dismissed. She was sentenced to a $700 fine, 
incarceration for 180 days (173 days suspended), driver’s license suspended for three 
years, and one year of probation. (Tr. 38-41; GE 11 at 12) In a court filing relating to the 
August of 2012 OUI, the prosecutor said, “that the defendant has violated a Court 
imposed deferment agreement by failing to refrain from engaging in new criminal conduct, 
failing to refrain from consuming alcohol and failing to provide proof of counseling to the 
7 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
     
   
     
  
     
 
     
   
 
 
      
  
   
       
    
  
    
 
District Attorney's office every sixty (60) days.” (GE 10 at 21, 33, 49, 78) She attended an 
alcohol class and a four-month outpatient alcohol counseling program in connection with 
the two OUIs. (Tr. 40, 61) 
SOR ¶ 1. i  alleges i n about  January 2012,  Applicant was  charged with theft  by  
unauthorized taking or  transfer,  in which  she  took an alcoholic beverage from a store shelf  
and consumed it in the store without  paying for it.  (GE 2 at 15 -17)1  She left the empty  
wine bottle on a shelf in the store.  (Tr. 33; GE 12 at 4 -6)  She  went to the store on more  
than one occasion while she was intoxicated. (Tr.  32) In January 2012,  she was drinking  
a bottle of wine most  days. (Tr. 34)  One theft  charge was  dismissed because she pled to  
other charges. (GE  10 at 37; GE 11 at 4-7 )  The other theft charge was resolved with  
deferred adjudication. (GE 10 at 38) She successfully completed the deferred  
adjudication,  and the charge was dismissed in January 2014. (GE  10 at  47)  
SOR ¶ 1.j  alleges in about July 2010,  Applicant was  charged with OUI.  (GE 2 at  
14)  She  said she had about four drinks  before getting into her vehicle. (Tr. 27)  She drank  
a beer and then probably a mixed drink of some type.  (Tr. 27) She said she did not recall  
having an open bottle of beer in her vehicle. (Tr. 28)  The police report for the OUI states  
“(1) the vehicle almost struck  a cement barrier traveling Southbound at  about 60 MPH;  
(2) then the vehicle struck a cone and dragged it  underneath the car; (3) then the vehicle  
struck a safety barrel;  [and]  (4) then the  vehicle went down into a ditch and back into the 
right lane.” (GE  9 at 6)  The police officer who stopped her vehicle said:  
I could see an open bottle of Rolling Rock beer in the middle console. I 
asked her to produce it and saw that it was empty with a slight amount of 
liquid at the bottom. I asked her how much she had had to drink tonight and 
she replied “nothing.” As she spoke directly at me, I could detect a moderate 
odor of intoxicants emanating from her breath. I asked her again how much 
she had had to drink and she replied, “One beer.” I asked her how long ago 
she drank that beer and she replied, “eight hours.” (GE 9 at 2) 
Later, the police officer ’s statement said, “I asked [Applicant] again how much she had 
had to drink. She now told me she drank “‘two beers three or four hours ago, not even, ’ 
at her parents’ house.” (GE 9 at 3) 
Applicant received a breat halyzer at the police station, and her BAC was .23 
percent. (Tr. 28; GE 9 at 5 ) She stayed overnight in jail; and she was charged with and 
convicted of OUI. (Tr. 28) She attended some alcohol education and group- type 
counseling. (Tr. 30) In 2010, before her OUI arrest, she drank and drove a couple of times, 
but didn’t get caught . (Tr. 31) On January 4, 2011, she was found guilty of OUI, fined 
$600, incarcerated for 72 hours, and her driver’s license was suspended for 90 days. (GE 
11 at 3-4) She received community service, and she may have been placed on probation. 
1  An indictment in the file states  Applicant  was charged with t heft by taking cosmetics from a supermarket  
on July 15, 2011. (GE 10 at 12)  This offense was not  discussed at her  hearing.  It  will not be considered in 
this decision.  
8 
 
 
   
  
 
    
   
  
 
 
 
    
   
  
 
   
   
  
 
  
 
      
  
     
  
    
     
    
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
     
   
    
   
(Tr. 28-29; GE 1) After her OUI, she drank alcohol two or three times a week and two or 
three drinks on each occasion. (Tr. 30) 
SOR ¶ 2.a cross alleges a criminal conduct security concern in ¶¶ 1.c, 1.d, 1.f, 1.g, 
1.h, 1.i, and 1.j , supra. SOR ¶ 3.a cross alleges a personal conduct security concern in 
¶¶ 1.b, 1.c, 1.d, 1.f, 1.g, 1.h, 1.i, and 1.j, supra. 
Character Evidence  
Applicant’s  three most  recent performance reviews are excellent. (AE D-AE F)  Her 
supervisor provided detailed descriptions  of her efforts and contributions to her employer.  
She was awarded the highest performance rating. (AE D -AE F) In 2024, she received a  
timely  awards plan award.  (AE C) In July  of 2025, she received a promotion  at work. (AE 
B) Applicant’s sister said:  
I would like to vouch for [Applicant’s] reliability and trustworthiness during 
her review for increased security clearance. [She] is fiercely loyal, 
dependable and hardworking. In the last 7 years she has bought, renovated, 
rented and sold several properties. She has provided support and expert 
financial advice for family members experiencing crises. She has worked 
her way from customer service retail jobs to securing positions with a 
reputable company where she earns a significant salary. (AE I) 
Applicant’s current manager told Dr. S: 
[Applicant’s] manager had daily contact with her. [Applicant] was “a great 
team member” who always completed her tasks in a timely manner. She 
was very intelligent and was a quick learner. [He] denied any knowledge of 
[Applicant] having any interpersonal issues with other peers or 
management. Source denied any knowledge of [Applicant] having any 
disciplinary or conduct-related issues. [He] denied any knowledge of [her] 
suffering from mental health or substance related issues. [He] believes that 
[her] judgement, reliability, and trustworthiness are intact and recommends 
her. (GE 3 at 6) 
Applicant’s supervisor at a previous employment made a similar statement of support 
concerning Applicant to Dr. S. (GE 3 at 6) 
Policies  
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion of the Executive 
Branch in regulating access to information pertaining to national security emphasizing, 
“no one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 
518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to “ control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual 
is sufficiently trustworthy” to have access to such information. Id. at 527. Th e President 
has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants eligibility for 
9 
 
 
 
     
    
  
 
  
  
   
    
 
   
 
  
 
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly consistent with the 
national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation 
about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Clearance 
decisions must be “in terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a 
determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 § 7. 
Thus, this decision should not be construed to suggest that it is based on any express or 
implied determination about applicant’s allegiance, loyalty, or patriotism. It is merely an 
indication the applicant has not met the strict guidelines the President, Secretary of 
Defense, and Director of National Intelligence have established for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 95 -0611 at 2 
(App. Bd. May 2, 1996). 
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial  
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶  E3.1.15. An applicant “has  the ultimate burden of  demonstrating that it  
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant  or continue his [or  her] security  
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01- 20700 at  3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). The burden of  
disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the Government.  See  ISCR Case No. 02-
31154 at  5 (App. Bd.  Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  Egan, 484 U.S. at 531;  see  AG  ¶ 2(b).   
10 
 
 
 
 
    
  
  
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Analysis  
Alcohol Consumption and Criminal Conduct  
AG ¶ 21 describes the security concern about alcohol consumption, “Excessive 
alcohol consumption often leads to the exercise of questionable judgment or the failure to 
control impulses and can raise questions about an individual’s reliability and 
trustworthiness.” 
AG ¶ 30 describes the security concern about criminal conduct, “Criminal activity 
creates doubt about a person’s judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness. By its very 
nature, it calls into question a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, r ules, 
and regulations.” 
AG ¶ 22 provides alcohol consumption conditions that could raise a security 
concern and may be disqualifying in this case as follows: 
(a)
alcohol-related incidents  away from work, such as  driving while under  
the influence, fighting,  child or spouse abuse,  disturbing the peace, or other  
incidents of concern, regardless of the frequency  of  the individual's alcohol  
use or  whether the i ndividual has been diagnosed with al cohol use di sorder;   
(c) habitual  or binge consumption of alcohol to the point of impaired  
judgment,  regardless  of whether the individual is diagnosed with alcohol  
use disorder;  
(
d) diagnosis by  a duly  qual ified medical or mental health professional (e.g.,  
physician,  clinical psychologist, psychiatrist, or licensed clinical social  
worker) of alcohol use  disorder;  
(e) the failure to follow  tr eatment advice once diagnosed;  
(f) alcohol consumption, which is not in accordance with treatment  
rec
ommendations,  after a diagnosis  of alcohol use disorder;  and  
(g) failure to follow  any c ourt order regarding  alcohol education, evaluation,  
treatment, or  abstinence.  
AG ¶
 31 provides t wo criminal conduct conditions that could raise a security 
concern and may be disqualifying in this case: 
(a) a pattern of  mi nor offenses, any  one of which on its own would be  
unlikely to affect a  national security eligibility decision, but which in  
combination cast doubt on the individual’s judgment, reliability, or  
trustworthiness;  and  
11 
 
 
 
     
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) evidence (including, but not limited to, a credible allegation, an 
admi
ssion, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of  
whether the individual  was formally charged,  prosecuted, or convicted.  
AG ¶
¶ 22(a), 22(c) through 22(g), 31(a), and 31(b) are established. Discussion of 
the disqualifying conditions is in the mitigating section infra. 
AG ¶ 23 lists four conditions that could mitigate alcohol consumption security 
concerns: 
(a) so much time has passed,  or t he behavior was so infrequent, or it  
happened under such unusual circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or  
does not cast doubt on the individual’s current reliability,  trustworthiness,  or  
judgment;  
(b) the individual acknowledges his  or h er pattern of maladaptive  alcohol  
use,  provides evidence of  actions taken to overcome this  problem, and has  
demonstrated a clear and established pattern of modified consumption or  
abstinence in accordance with treatment recommendations;  
(c) the individual is participating in counseling or a treatment program, has  
no prev
ious history of treatment  and relapse, and is making satisfactory  
progress in a treatment program;  and  
(d) the individual has  suc cessfully completed a treatment program  along  
with any required aftercare and has demonstrated a clear  and established  
pattern of  modified consumption or  abstinence in accordance with treatment  
recommendations.  
AG ¶
 32 lists four conditions that could mitigate criminal conduct security concerns: 
(a) so much time has  elaps ed since the criminal behavior happened, or it  
happened under such unusual circumstances, that it is unlikely to recur and  
does not cast doubt on the individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, or good  
judgment;  
(b) the individual was pressured or coerced into committing the act and  
thos
e pressures are no longer present in the person’s life;  
(c) no reliable evidence to support that the individual committed the offense;  
and  
(d) there is evidence of successful rehabilitation; including, but not limited  
to,
 the passage of time without recurrence of criminal activity, restitution,  
compliance with the terms of parole or  probation, job training or higher  
education, good employment  record,  or constructive community  
involvement.  
12 
 
 
      
        
      
     
 
    
    
 
    
     
 
  
  
  
    
  
    
      
 
   
       
     
 
  
 
    
    
      
 
  
 
 
    
 
    
  
 
  
 
    
 
   
 
 
   
   
Applicant was charged in eight alcohol -related incidents, one felony, and seven 
misdemeanors during the span of eight years (2010-2018) (three OUIs, one theft, one 
bail violation, one probation violation, one disorderly conduct, and one conspiracy to 
obstruct justice). One OUI was in 2010 and two OUIs were in 2012. After her May of 2012 
OUI, she was released on bail with an order not to consume alcohol and not commit a 
criminal offense. In August of 2012, she was arrested for OUI, which constituted a 
violation of the conditions of her release. 
Applicant’s BACs for her OUIs were as follows: 2010 (.23 percent); May of 2012 
(.27 percent); and August of 2012 (.15 percent). Her BACs are of sufficient magnitude to 
establish binge-alcohol consumption. She was intoxicated when she committed a theft 
offense of a bottle of wine in January of 2012. In January 2017, she was charged with 
conspiracy to obstruct justice in federal court; she pleaded guilty; and she was sentenced 
to five years of probation. The prosecutor for the conspiracy to obstruct justice s aid the 
offense was related to her alcohol consumption. In a bout October of 2018, she was 
charged with profane swearing and public intoxication (disorderly conduct). This criminal 
offense and consumption of alcohol violated her probation from her conspiracy to obstruct 
justice sentence. The October of 2018 offense was her most recent criminal offense. 
In about September 2017, Applicant received court -ordered mental health and 
substance abuse treatment. She was diagnosed with a lcohol use disorder, severe. She 
was advised to remain abstinent from alcohol. She continued to consume alcohol. 
In June of 2024, Dr. S diagnosed Applicant with major depressive disorder, 
recurrent, moderate, with anxious distress, in full remission, and alcohol use disorder, 
moderate, in full remission. DSM 5 defines “sustained remission” as follows : After full 
criteria for alcohol use disorder were previously met, none of the criteria for alcohol use 
disorder have been met at any time during a period of 12 months or longer (with the 
exception that Criterion A4, “Craving, or a strong desire or urge to use alcohol,” may be 
met).  (GE 13 at 3) 
A determination of “sustained remission” in the context of alcohol use disorder in 
DSM 5 is a positive development; however, it has different and less expansive criteria 
than a determination of reliability, responsibility, and good judgment in the context of 
access to classified information. Sustained remission focuses on current alcohol -related 
symptoms and mitigation under the alcohol -consumption guideline considers the history 
of alcohol abuse, judgment concerns, and patterns of alcohol consumption. Previous 
periods of sobriety or abstinence followed by resumptions of alcohol consumption, and 
responses to stressors are important in the alcohol -consumption analysis, and they are 
not mentioned in the DSM 5 definition of sustained remission. 
In ISCR Case No. 22-02391 at 4 (App. Bd. Oct. 17, 2023), the Appeal Board said: 
Police reports, which are admissible both as an official record under 
Directive ¶ E3.1.20 and as a public record under Federal Rule of Evidence 
803(8), are presumed to be reliable by virtue of the government agency’s 
duty for accuracy and the high probability that it has satisfied that duty. See, 
13 
 
 
 
 
       
     
   
   
 
   
    
  
    
    
 
     
      
  
     
   
 
    
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
 
e.g.,  ISCR Case No.  15-02859 at 3 (App. Bd. Jun. 23, 2017);  ISCR Case  
No. 16-03603 at 4 (App. Bd. May  29,  2019).  
Applicant did not provide accurate information to the police officers who arrested 
her for her July of 2010 and May of 2012 OUIs, and at her hearing when she discussed 
these two offenses. At her hearing, for her July of 2010 OUI, she said she had about four 
drinks before getting into her vehicle. She drank a beer and then probably a mixed drink 
of some type. The police officer who stopped her vehicle said: 
I asked her how much she had had to drink tonight and she replied 
“nothing.” As she spoke directly at me, I could detect a moderate odor of 
intoxicants emanating from her breath. I asked her again how much she had 
had to drink and she replied, “One beer.” I asked her how long ago she 
drank that beer and she replied, “eight hours.” (GE 9 at 2) 
Later, the police officer ’s statement said, “I asked [Applicant] again how much she had 
had to drink. She now told me she drank ‘two beers three or four hours ago, not even,’ at 
her parents’ house.” (GE 9 at 3) Applicant received a breathalyzer at the police station, 
and her BAC was .23 percent. Her statement at her hearing about consuming four drinks 
minimized the amount of alcohol she consumed before her July of 2010 OUI arrest. 
For her May 11, 2012 OUI, Applicant said she consumed some alcohol, and drove 
to purchase a sandwich. (Tr. 36) She shut her vehicle engine off and was sleeping for 
about 20 minutes. (Tr. 36- 37) However, the police report states that Applicant’s vehicle 
was in a parking lot with the lights on and the engine was running. Applicant was passed 
out “behind the wheel” with her seatbelt on. Id. The police officer had to bang on the 
window more than once with his flashlight before she groggily responded. Id. The vehicle 
keys were in the ignition. (Tr. 36) She told the police she had not been drinking. Her BAC 
was .27 percent. 
Applicant’s  inaccurate statements to the police and at her hearing about drinking  
and the circumstances of  her  arrests  were not alleged in the SOR.  In ISCR Case No.  03-
20327 at 4 (App. Bd. Oct. 26, 2006), the Appeal Board listed five circumstances in which  
conduct not  alleged in an SOR  may be considered stating:   
(a) to assess an applicant’s credibility; (b) to evaluate an applicant’s  
evidence of  extenuation,  mitigation, or changed circumstances; (c) to  
consider whether an applicant has  demonstrated successful rehabilitation;   
(d) to decide whether a particular provision of the Adjudicative Guidelines is  
applicable; or (e) to provide evidence for whole person analysis under  
Directive Section 6.3.   
Id. (citing ISCR Case  No. 02-07218 at 3 (App. Bd. Mar. 15, 2004); ISCR Case No. 00-
0633 at 3 (App.  Bd. Oct. 24,  2003)).  See also  ISCR Case No.  12-09719 at 3 (App.  Bd.  
Apr. 6, 2016) (citing ISCR Case No.  14-00151 at 3, n. 1 (App. Bd. Sept. 12, 2014); ISCR  
Case No. 03- 20327 at  4 (App. Bd.  Oct.  26, 2006)). These non- SOR allegations  
(inaccurate information  to the police and at her hearing)  will be considered in the credibility  
14 
 
 
    
  
 
  
     
    
 
  
 
  
  
    
  
  
    
  
  
  
    
  
   
 
  
     
      
    
 
  
    
   
 
     
     
     
 
 
   
 
  
  
    
    
 
 
 
assessment, their effect on mitigation, and under the whole-person concept. They will not 
be considered for disqualification purposes. 
Applicant’s criminal offenses are not recent. The most recent criminal offense was 
in October of 2018. Her criminal offenses are unlikely to recur and do not cast doubt on 
her current reliability, trustworthiness, and good judgment. 
Dr. S said in his June of 2024 evaluation: 
[Applicant] has never successfully completed a period of sustained 
abstinence despite multiple recommendations for her to abstain from 
drinking which brings the concern that her previous pattern of problematic 
alcohol use could easily return should she experience negative situations 
or a destabilizing event. The fact that the major problems in her life have 
either involved or been the result of alcohol use again highlights a flaw 
within her judgment and places her at risk for future decompensation. As 
such, the Evaluator is unable to provide a favorable recommendation at this 
time. Consideration for a favorable recommendation would require 
[Applicant] to continue to show stability in all relevant areas while also 
completing a period of sustained abstinence (1 year or more) from any 
alcohol or drug use. (GE 3 at 7) 
Dr. S’s conclusions are supported by the evidence and warrant considerable 
weight. Applicant’s statement that she abstained from alcohol consumption for eight 
months before her hearing is a positive development, and she has shown stability in all 
relevant areas, especially in her record of good employment . However, her inaccurate 
statements about the circumstances of two of her OUIs, her continued consumption of 
alcohol up to November of 2024, her resumption of alcohol consumption in the past after 
periods of abstinence up to one year (in 2022 to 2023) , her failure to follow previous 
recommendations of abstinence, and the seriousness of her criminal incidents, especially 
her submission of a false affidavit in connection with the conspiracy to obstruct justice, 
continue to cast doubt on her reliability, trustworthiness, and good judgment with respect 
to her alcohol consumption under Guideline G . Criminal conduct security concerns are 
mitigated; however, alcohol consumption security concerns are not mitigated at this time. 
Personal Conduct  
AG ¶ 15 explains why personal conduct is a security concern stating: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect 
classified information. Of special interest is any failure to provide truthful 
and candid answers during the security clearance process or any other 
failure to cooperate with the security clearance process. . . . 
15 
 
 
      
   
      
  
  
 
 
  
     
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
    
    
   
  
  
 
 
AG ¶ 16 lists one personal conduct disqualifying condition that is potentially 
relevant in this case as follows , “(e) personal conduct, or concealment of information 
about one's conduct, that creates a vulnerability to exploitation, manipulation, or duress 
by a foreign intelligence entity or other individual or group. Such conduct includes: (1) 
engaging in activities which, if known, could affect the person’s personal, professional, or 
community standing.” 
The record establishes AG ¶ 16(e). Further details will be discussed in the 
mitigation analysis, infra. AG ¶ 17 lists personal conduct mitigating conditions which are 
potentially applicable: 
(a) the individual  mad
 e prompt,  good-faith efforts to correct the omission,  
concealment,  or falsification before being  confronted with the facts;  
(b) the refusal or failure to cooperate, omission, or concealment was caused  
or  si
gnificantly contributed to by  advice of legal counsel  or of  a person with  
professional  responsibilities for advising or instructing the individual  
specifically concerning security  processes. Upon being made aware of the  
requirement to cooperate or  provide the  information, the individual  
cooperated fully  and truthfully;  
(c) the offense is so minor, or so much time has passed, or the behavior is  
so i
nfrequent,  or it happened under such unique circumstances that it is  
unlikely to recur  and  does not  cast  doubt on the i ndividual’s reliability,  
trustworthiness, or  good judgment;  
 
(d) the individual has acknowledged the behavior and obtained counseling  
to c
hange the be havior or taken other positive steps to alleviate the  
stressors, circumstances, or factors  that  contributed to untrustworthy,  
unreliable, or  other inappropriate behavior, and such  behavior is  unlikely to  
recur;  
(e) the individual has  ta ken positive steps to reduce or eliminate vulnerability  
to  exploitation,  manipulation, or duress;  and  
(f) the information was unsubstantiated or from a source of questionable  
re
liability.  
SOR
 ¶ 3.a cross alleges a personal conduct security concern in relation to the 
alcohol consumption security concerns in SOR ¶¶ 1.b, 1.c, 1.d, 1.f, 1.g, 1.h, 1.i, and 1.j, 
supra. These allegations under Guideline G are sufficient to disqualify Applicant for a 
security clearance without consideration under Guideline E . A pplicant’s conduct and 
alcohol-related issues are known to security officials , courts, law enforcement, medical 
personnel, and her family and could not be used to coerce her . AG ¶ 17(e) applies. The 
personal conduct security concern is mitigated. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
    
     
   
       
    
 
   
   
  
    
 
   
  
  
 
  
    
  
  
   
  
 
    
   
   
    
 
  
  
      
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all the circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), “[t]he ultimate determination” of whether to grant a security 
clearance “must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines” and the whole- person concept. My comments under Guidelines G, J, 
and E are incorporated in my whole- person analysis. Some of the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) 
were addressed under those guidelines but some warrant additional comment. 
Applicant is 54 years old, and she has worked as a project analyst for three and a 
half years. In 1994, she received a bachelor’s degree in political science. She needs three 
more credits to complete her master’s degree in health policy management. She has four 
professional certifications. She disclosed her criminal charges and convictions on her 
SCA. In the 2003 to 2005, she was a nationally-ranked athlete in her sport, and she won 
three national titles. She is an excellent employee at her current and imme diately 
preceding employment s. Her character evidence support s approval of her access to 
classified information 
The disqualifying and mitigating information is discussed in the alcohol 
consumption, criminal conduct, and personal conduct analysis sections, supra. The 
reasons for denial of Applicant’s access to classified information are more persuasive at 
this time than the mitigating information she presented. 
It is well settled that once a concern arises regarding an applicant’s security 
clearance eligibility, there is a strong presumption against granting a security clearance. 
See Dorfmont v. Brown, 913 F. 2d 1399, 1401 (9th Cir. 1990) . “[A] favorable clearance 
decision means that the record discloses no basis for doubt about an applicant’s eligibility 
for access to classified information.” ISCR Case No. 18- 02085 at 7 (App. Bd. Jan. 3, 
2020) (citing ISCR Case No. 12-00270 at 3 (App. Bd. Jan. 17, 2014)). 
I have carefully applied the law, as set forth in Egan, Exec. Or. 10865, the Directive, 
the AGs, and the Appeal Board’s jurisprudence to the facts and circumstances in the 
context of the whole person. Applicant mitigated criminal conduct and personal conduct 
17 
 
 
     
 
 
 
  
    
  
 
 
    
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
      
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_________________________ 
security concerns; however, alcohol consumption security concerns are not fully mitigated 
at this time. 
This decision should not be construed as a determination that Applicant cannot or 
will not attain the state of reform necessary for award of a security clearance in the future. 
In the future, she may provide additional mitigating information, and she may well be able 
to demonstrate persuasive evidence of her security clearance worthiness. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,
  Guideline G:   AGAINST  APPLICANT   
Subparagraphs  1.a  through 1.j:  Against  Applicant  
Paragraph 2, Guideline J:   FOR APPLICANT   
Subparagraph 2.a:  For  Applicant  
Paragraph 3, Guideline E:    FOR APPLICANT   
Subparagraph 3.a:  For  Applicant  
Conclusion  
Cons
idering all the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant Applicant eligibility for 
access to classified information. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Mark Harvey 
Administrative Judge 
18 