 
 
                                                              
           
             
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
 
 
 
        
      
         
        
    
      
     
 
            
      
            
       
       
       
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS  
In  the  matter of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR  Case No.  24-01609  
 )  
Applicant for Security Clearance  )  
 
Appearances  
For Government: Mark D. Lawton, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
03/06/2025 
Decision  
HALE, Charles C., Administrative Judge: 
This case involves security concerns raised under Guideline F (Financial 
Considerations). Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Statement  of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application on September 8, 2022 . On 
September 17, 2024, the Department of Defense (DoD) sent her a Statement of Reasons 
(SOR) alleging security concerns under Guideline F. The DoD acted under Executive 
Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 
20, 19 60), as amended ; D oD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security 
Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the 
adjudicative guidelines (AG) implemented by the DoD on June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR on October 15, 2024, and requested a hearing before 
an administrative judge. Department Counsel was ready to proceed on December 17, 
2024, and the case was assigned to me on January 13, 2024. Applicant requested an 
expedited hearing. On January 22, 2024, the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals 
(DOHA) notified Applicant that the hearing was scheduled for February 6, 2025 . I 
convened the hearing as scheduled. Government Exhibits (GE) 1, and 3 through 6 were 
1 
 
 
            
       
      
         
  
 
       
     
         
 
 
 
           
  
 
        
      
           
          
         
            
            
            
   
 
            
              
   
           
  
 
        
        
           
        
          
         
       
           
             
        
         
           
        
admitted in evidence without objection. Applicant objected to GE 2, a Report of Enhanced 
Subject Interview, dated October 26, 2022, with follow -on interview on August 9, 2023. I 
sustained Applicant’s objection. Applicant provided documents with her Answer, testified, 
and submitted Applicant’s Exhibits (AE) A through P at the hearing, which were admitted 
without objection. 
I kept the record open to enable Applicant to submit additional documentary 
evidence. Applicant timely submitted AE T through Z , which were admitted without 
objection. DOHA received the transcript (Tr.) on February 19, 2025. The record closed on 
March 3, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.b, 1.g-1.h and 1.j and denied SOR ¶¶ 1.c-1.f and 
1.i. 
Applicant is a 36-year-old employee of a defense contractor. She has been 
employed by her sponsor since April 2024. She was laid off in September 2024 pending 
a determination o n her security clearance . She is currently collecting $430 a week in 
unemployment from her state. She was unemployed for about eight to nine months while 
in school. She graduated high school in 2005 and earned a professional certificate in 
information technology in 2022. She received an interim security clearance when she was 
hired by her sponsor. She is a single mother of five children ranging in age from 4 to 17. 
One child has special needs. She receives about $900 in child support a month and 
additional support for her disabled child. (GE 1; Tr. 22-25; 59-60.) 
Applicant testified to being a victim of identity theft. She had two accounts opened 
between August 2020 and May 2022 in her name. She filed a police report on the matter. 
She was contacted in 2022 or 2023 by an agent from the Department of Justice and told 
her that someone had “compromised [her] identity” and had applied for Federal 
unemployment. (Answer; Tr. at 70-71.) 
SOR ¶ 1.a: a judgment entered in May 2019 in [District Court] in the amount 
of $4,500, which remains delinquent. In her Answer, Applicant admitted the debt and 
stated it arose from a cosigned loan with her stepfather. She had only cosigned for $800. 
She was not sure what had resulted in the higher amount, possibly “interest, late fees, 
and attorney fees.” The creditor had her served on May 2, 2019, with notice of the lawsuit. 
Her stepfather had worked out an agreement with the creditor and was making payments 
from February 2019 until the lawsuit. Her stepfather passed away in August 2023. The 
judgment resulted in her wages being garnished in October 2023 . She went to court in 
December 2023 and in January 2024 and a judge terminated the garnishment. She was 
advised by counsel to stop payments and have her stepfather’s estate resolve the debt. 
After her interim clearance was revoked in September 2024, she entered into an 
agreement to make monthly payments on the portion of the loan she cosigned for. She 
presented her payment receipts from October 2024 through January 2025 and confirmed 
2 
 
 
            
 
 
        
      
           
        
     
          
       
       
          
     
 
        
       
               
          
        
         
       
          
       
         
             
    
 
        
            
          
     
        
        
          
 
 
      
          
         
      
            
            
       
          
            
a payment made on February 14, 2025, to the creditor. (Answer at 1, 5; AE D-G, AE W; 
Tr. 25-30; 65, 70.) 
SOR ¶ 1.b: indebted to a cellular phone carrier for an account placed for 
collection in the amount of $1,908, which remains delinquent . In her Answer , 
Applicant admitted the debt and stated she switched phone carriers and was charged an 
early termination fee. She is working with the carrier to setup payment arrangements to 
pay this debt off . After her interim clearance was revoked in September 2024, she 
reached back out to the creditor to setup a new payment arrangement. She provided a 
January 16, 2025 letter showing her payment arrangement to settle the debt by making 
four $281.51 payments on 01/22/2025, 01/29/2025, 02/12/2025, and 02/26/2025, and 
provided a February 28, 2025 letter from the carrier stating the account had been settled. 
(Answer; AE K; AE V; Tr. 30-32, 70.) 
SOR ¶ 1.c: indebted to a cable tv provider for an account placed for collection 
in the amount of $1,152, which remains delinquent. In her Answer, Applicant denied 
the debt and stated she had returned the equipment when she canceled her service in 
2021. She disputed the debt on her credit report. She testified she returned the equipment 
during the COVID pandemic in approximately April 2021. “I did turn in the equipment, but 
they can't find it. So, it's like I'm stuck with paying, you know, this debt off. ” The last 
payment on the account was April 16, 2021. In March of 2022 she had engaged a credit 
law firm to challenge this debt. Even though she disputes this debt she has tried to 
negotiate a settlement so that matter would no longer be on her credit report and 
jeopardize her security clearance eligibility . She made a $150 payment on January 22, 
2025 and provided a March 3, 2025 payment receipt for $200 to the creditor. (GE 4-6; AE 
A, AE B, AE S, AE X; Tr at 33-35, 61-62.) 
SOR ¶ 1.d: delinquent account placed for collection in the amount of $790 . 
In her Answer, Applicant denied the debt and stated she was the victim of identity theft. 
She adamantly maintained at the hearing she was not admitting this debt. She provided 
a police report with her Answer. She noted her credit report shows her dispute. She 
maintains that this debt was incurred by fraud. Even though she disputes this debt she 
negotiated a settlement of $280 and paid it on January 17, 2025, so that it would no longer 
be on her credit report and jeopardize her security clearance eligibility. (GE 4-6; AE C; Tr. 
36-37, 61-62.) 
SOR ¶ 1.e: delinquent account charged off in the approximate amount of 
$503. In her Answer, Applicant denied the debt and stated she was the victim of identity 
theft. She testified this was a credit card that was opened “in fraud.” She provided a police 
report with her Answer. She noted her credit report shows her dispute. She testified the 
credit bureau informed her that they had investigated the matter and that the account was 
closed, and that the account and removed from her credit report. She maintained it had 
not simply fallen off her credit report after seven years. She provided a February 12, 2025 
letter from the creditor stating, “we have completed our investigation and have determined 
you are not responsible for the disputed account. We have sent information to the major 
3 
 
 
       
 
 
       
             
        
           
           
          
  
 
          
     
            
        
        
        
           
          
          
             
       
             
          
    
 
       
           
      
         
   
 
     
         
           
          
             
      
       
  
 
       
          
      
     
          
consumer reporting agencies to remove the account from your consumer file. ” (GE 4-6; 
AE M; AE V; Tr. 37-40.) 
SOR ¶ 1.f: delinquent account charged off in the approximate amount of 
$489. In her Answer, Applicant denied the debt and stated the debt had been returned to 
the original creditor in November 2023 . In March of 2022 she had engage d a credit law 
firm to challenge this debt. She stated th e balance owed on the account was zero and 
the account was closed. She testified she was informed over the phone by the original 
creditor that the balance was zero. She has not made any payments on this account. (GE 
4-6; Answer; AE S; Tr. 40-42.) 
SOR ¶ 1.g: delinquent car loan past due in the approximate amount of 
$28,693. In her Answer, Applicant admitted the debt. It was a car loan for a 2014 vehicle 
she purchased in 2018. The account became overdue in 2021, which was when she made 
her last payment until her security clearance application . She initiated contact with the 
creditor shortly after receiving the SOR. She denied this contact was initiated due the 
SOR and said it was part of an ongoing dispute over a warranty for the vehicle. She had 
been going back and forth with the dealers and the creditor. The creditor advised her that 
whatever issues she was having with the vehicle and the warranty that she needed to go 
back to the place where she purchased it. The dealer, without admitting liability, ultimately 
paid her $2,000 to resolve the matter. The creditor never picked the car up and it does 
not run due to a transmission issue. She has an agreement with the creditor to settle the 
debt with a one-time payment. After the hearing she continued to communicate with the 
creditor. The creditor granted her an e xtension on the agreement because she was 
unemployed. (Answer; AE N-R; AE Y; Tr. at 42-51, 66-69.) 
SOR ¶ 1.h: delinquent account past due in the approximate amount of $60, 
with a total balance of $620 . In her Answer, Applicant admitted this debt and state d it 
was no longer delinquent after she completed a payment of $125 in December 2024. She 
attached a payment receipt with her answer, which reflects her actions after receipt of the 
SOR. (Answer; AE H; Tr. at 51.) 
SOR ¶ 1. i: delinquent consu mer account placed for collection in the 
approximate amount of $ 635. In her Answer , Applicant denied the debt on the basis 
she had been the victim of identity theft. In March of 2022 she had engaged a credit law 
firm to challenge this debt. The firm sent a letter on her behalf in April 2022 requesting 
validation of the loan. She attached a copy of a police report to her Answer. She stated 
she had disputed this with the creditor and informed the credit bureaus and that the debt 
was removed from her credit report in November of 2023 on the basis of identity fraud. 
(GE 4-6; Answer; AE T; Tr. 51-54.) 
SOR ¶ 1.j: delinquent media account placed for collection in the approximate 
amount of $475. In her Answer, Applicant acknowledged she told the investigator during 
her security clearance interview she would set up a payment plan but that it did not 
happen. In March of 2022, she engaged a credit law firm to challenge this debt. The firm 
sent a letter on her behalf in April 2022 requesting validation of the loan. She ultimately 
4 
 
 
           
    
 
      
      
        
    
 
 
        
          
           
          
       
      
       
 
       
        
 
         
      
       
    
 
           
   
         
      
         
    
 
 
        
              
          
      
   
 
 
resolved the debt, and the creditor issued a September 27, 2024 letter stating the account 
had a zero balance. (Answer; AE T; Tr. at 54-56.) 
Applicant requested her hearing and decision be expedited. Therefore, many of 
her actions involving her debts were in close proximity to the hearing . However, her 
testimony regarding her actions prior to the security clearance application process is 
supported by documentary evidence. (AE Q, AE S, AE T; GE 1; Tr. 61-62.) 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. At 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
decision. An a dministrative judge must consider all available and reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865 
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant 
has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have 
established for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the  Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in  the  
personal or professional history of the  applicant that  may disqualify the  applicant from  
being  eligible  for access to  classified  information. The  Government has the  burden  of  
establishing  controverted  facts alleged  in the  SOR. See  Egan,  484  U.S. at 531.  
“Substantial evidence”  is “more than  a  scintilla but less than  a  preponderance.” See  v.  
Washington  Metro. Area  Transit Auth., 36  F.3d  375, 380  (4th  Cir. 1994). The  guidelines  
5 
 
 
       
          
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
          
  
 
       
   
            
   
      
          
     
    
    
        
       
  
 
 
        
     
      
       
     
    
  
         
     
   
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 15-01253 at 3 
(App. Bd. Apr. 20, 2016). 
Once  the  Government establishes a  disqualifying  condition  by substantial 
evidence, the  burden  shifts to  the  applicant  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or mitigate  the  
facts.  Directive ¶  E3.1.15. An  applicant has  the  burden  of proving  a  mitigating  condition,  
and  the  burden  of  disproving  it never shifts  to  the  Government. See  ISCR  Case  No. 02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005).  
An applicant “has the ultimate burden  of demonstrating  that it is clearly consistent  
with the national interest to grant or continue  his security clearance.”  ISCR Case No. 01-
20700  at 3  (App. Bd. Dec.  19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance  determinations should  err, if 
they must, on the side  of denials.” Egan, 484  U.S. at 531.   
Analysis  
Guideline F: Financial Considerations  
The security concern relating to the guideline for financial considerations is set out 
in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one ’s means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual ’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambl ing, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of havin g to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
Affluence that cannot be explained by known sources of income is also a 
security concern insofar as it may result from criminal activity, including 
espionage. 
This concern is broader than the possibility that an individual might knowingly 
compromise classified information in order to raise money. It encompasses concerns 
about an individual’s self -control, judgment, and other qualities essential to protecting 
classified information. An individual who is financially irresponsible may also be 
irresponsible, unconcerned, or negligent in handing and safeguarding classified 
information. See ISCR Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012) 
Applicant’s admissions and the evidence admitted at the hearing establish two 
disqualifying conditions under this guideline: AG ¶ 19(a): “inability to satisfy debts ”, and 
AG ¶ 19(c): “a history of not meeting financial obligations”. 
6 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
           
       
                
         
     
 
       
       
         
             
         
         
       
        
  
 
         
           
            
  
 
          
        
         
          
          
       
  
 
The following mitigating conditions are potentially applicable: 
AG ¶  20(a):  the  behavior happened  so  long  ago,  was so  infrequent,  or occurred  
under such  circumstances that it is unlikely to  recur and  does not cast doubt on  
the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;  
AG ¶  20(b): the  conditions that resulted  in  the  financial problem  were  largely  
beyond  the  person’s  control (e.g., loss   of employment,   a  business downturn,   
unexpected  medical emergency,  or  a  death,  divorce  or separation,  clear  
victimization  by predatory lending  practices, or identity theft), and  the  individual 
acted responsibly under the circumstances; and  
AG ¶  20(d):  the  individual initiated  and  is adhering  to  a  good-faith  effort to  repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.  
AG ¶ 20(a) is established. Applicant's delinquent debts occurred while she was 
underemployed and in school. These are circumstances that are unlikely to recur. She 
has established her reliability, trustworthiness, and good judgment by providing evidence 
that she is paying off debts, hired a credit law firm prior to her September 2022 SCA, was 
communicating with creditors to resolve debts in dispute, and made payments on debts 
she disputed to demonstrate her reliability and good judgment. 
AG ¶ 20(b) applies because Applicant's debts occurred due to circumstances 
beyond her control. She supported her testimony concerning her major debt, the 
delinquent car loan, with her efforts to negotiate a resolution and that she had incurred 
repair costs that were not honored by the warranty she had purchased . She supported 
testimony regarding identity theft with documentary evidence , including a creditor 
removing a debt after their investigation . She has demonstrated that she acted 
responsibly under the circumstances by making payments on debts whenever she had 
the financial resources. She provide d sufficient evidence to show that she acted 
responsibly under the circumstances to resolve them. AG ¶ 20(b) is established. 
AG ¶ 20(d ) is established. Applicant provided substantial evidence that she was 
active in resolving her debts going back to 2020 . W hen she had additional income 
available, she initiated and has adhered to a good-faith effort to repay overdue creditors 
or otherwise resolve debts. 
Applicant does not present a perfect case in mitigation, but perfection is not 
required. She documented that she was engaged in her finances prior to the SOR being 
issued. After the SOR was issued she sought an expedited hearing and during that limited 
time period she continued trying to mitigate the security concerns. Under the 
circumstances of this case, I find that h er finances no longer generate questions about 
her judgment, reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified information. 
Security concerns about her finances are mitigated. 
7 
 
 
 
       
       
          
        
       
      
 
 
 
        
         
   
  
   
 
     
   
        
Whole-Person Concept  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole -person concept. In applying the whole -
person concept, an administrative j udge must evaluate an applicant’s eligibility for a 
security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct and all relevant 
circumstances. An a dministrative judge should consider the nine adjudicative pr ocess 
factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  
and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct;  
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.   
I have incorporated my comments under Guideline F in my whole-person analysis 
and applied the adjudicative factors in AG ¶ 2(d). Overall, the record evidence leaves me 
without questions or doubts about Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security 
clearance. I conclude Applicant mitigated the financial considerations security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
I make the following formal findings on the allegations in the SOR: 
  Subparagraphs 1.a-j:   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paragraph  1, Guideline F:   FOR APPLICANT 
For Applicant 
Conclusion 
It  is clearly consistent  with  the  national interest to  continue  Applicant’s eligibility for 
a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted.  
Charles C. Hale 
Administrative Judge 
8 