______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00831 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
A
ppearances 
For Government: John Renehan, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
08/01/2025 
Decision 
OLMOS, Bryan J., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to mitigate the security concerns raised under Guideline H (Drug 
Involvement and Substance Misuse) and Guideline E (Personal Conduct) . Eligibility for 
access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case 
On September 27, 2024, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement 
of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline H and 
Guideline E. The DOD issued the SOR under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, 
Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; 
DOD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the Security Executive Agent 
Directive 4 (SEAD 4), National Security Adjudicative Guidelines (AG), effective June 8, 
2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR on November 4, 2024 (Answer ) and requested a 
decision based on the written record by an administrative judge from the Defense Office 
of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA), in lieu of a hearing. He clarified and supplemented 
his Answer on January 13, 2025. On March 14, 2025, Department Counsel submitted 
the Government’s File of Relevant Material (FORM) including Government’s Exhibits 
(GX) 1 through 9. Applicant did not respond to the FORM. 
The case was assigned to me on June 10, 2025. The SOR (GX 1) and Answer 
(GX 2) are the pleadings in this case. GX 3 through GX 9 are admitted without 
objection. 
Amendment to the SOR 
Within the FORM submission, Department Counsel amended the SOR to 
withdraw SOR allegation ¶ 3.e. However, the SOR does not contain an allegation under 
¶ 3.e. Instead, the SOR contains an allegation under subparagraph ¶ 2.e. In review of 
the record, I find that it was Department Counsel’s intent to withdraw the allegation 
under ¶ 2.e and SOR ¶ 2.e is withdrawn. 
Findings of Fact 
In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted all the SOR allegations with 
qualifications. His admissions are incorporated into my findings of fact. After a thorough 
review of the pleadings and evidence submitted, I make the following additional findings 
of fact. 
Applicant is 44 years old. He is married and has two children. He completed an 
electrical apprenticeship in 2016. He currently holds a security clearance, which was 
first granted in May 2013, and he signed a non- disclosure agreement in September 
2013. He was employed with Company A from May 2011 through November 2022 and , 
after obtaining a security clearance, accessed two federal installations to perform his 
work. He has been with his current employer, Company B, since November 2022 and is 
a foreman. (GX 3-7, 9) 
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse 
SOR ¶ 1.a allege d that Applicant used marijuana from July 1996 through 
November 2022. He admitted the allegation but claimed that he only used marijuana 
from July 1996 through November 2004 and then again in November 2022, following 
the passing of his mother. (GX 1-2) 
In his September 2023 responses to a Questionnaire fo r National Security 
Positions ( SF86), under “Section 23: Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity: ” which 
asked whether he had used any illegal drugs or controlled substances in the prior seven 
years, Applicant answered affirmatively. He then disclosed he first used marijuana in 
2 
July 1996, and that his most recent use of marijuana occurred in November 2022. He 
stated he used marijuana “socially” and “occasionally,” but did not recall the number of 
times he used it. He answered negatively the question that asked if he had been 
involved in the illegal purchase of drugs in the prior seven years. He also denied any 
intent to use drugs or controlled substances in the future and stated he did not “have a 
need or want to do it anymore.” (GX 5) 
Later in September 2023, Applicant submitted his responses to a Questionnaire 
for Non-Sensitive Positions (SF85). Under “Section 17: Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug 
Activity:” which asked whether he had used any drugs or controlled substances in the 
prior year, Applicant answered affirmatively. He disclosed that he first used marijuana in 
July 1995 and last used marijuana in November 2022. He stated that he “experimented 
with it in high school and socially used it every now and then .” He answered negatively 
the question that asked if he had purchased marijuana in the last year. (GX 6) 
Applicant underwent a background interview with an Office of Personnel 
Management (OPM) investigator in December 2023. The summary of that interview 
states: 
DRUG USE: All information regarding the listed marijuana use was 
consistent with the investigative questionnaire [SF86], unless otherwise 
noted. Subject has used marijuana from 07/1996 to 11/2022. Subject used 
socially with friends/brother, as well as to help him sleep. Subject's 
marijuana use made him feel tired. Subject used marijuana on the 
weekends. Subject obtained the marijuana from friends of his friends: no 
further pertinent information could be provided. Subject would spend 
approximately $50 once a month on marijuana. Subject has not used 
since 11/2022. Subject has used marijuana while possessing a federal 
security clearance in the past, while working at the [Government 
Installation 1] and possibly [Government Installation 2]. Subject cannot be 
blackmailed or coerced. Subject's marijuana use has not had a negative 
impact on his life. Subject's friends know of his past marijuana use. 
Subject has not informed any of his employers of his marijuana use. 
Subject does not intend on using marijuana in the future. Subject has not 
used any other illegal drugs. Subject has not sought or been ordered to 
attend drug counseling. (GX 7) 
The record is absent further details regarding the circumstances of Applicant’s 
marijuana use. While marijuana is legal in his current state of residence, the record is 
absent details of how he obtained the marijuana or where he used it. The record is also 
absent information as to whether his marijuana use in November 2022 was in a single 
instance or over multiple occasions. There is no information regarding his company’s 
drug policies or whether he was ever drug tested. (GX 2, 5, 7) 
3 
SOR ¶ 1.b alleged that Applicant used marijuana from May 2013 through 
November 2022 “while granted access to classified information. ” He admitted the 
allegation but claimed his only relevant use of marijuana occurred in November 2022. 
(GX 1-2) 
SOR ¶ 1.c alleged that Applicant was charged with DWI by alcohol and 
possession of marijuana in October 2004. He admitted the allegation and disclosed 
details of the arrest and charges in his March 2013 and September 2023 SF86s. During 
his December 2023 interview, Applicant provided further details of the events that led up 
to the DWI arrest. He stated he accepted probation before judgment whereby he served 
one year of probation, had reporting requirements with the state and that his license 
was temporarily restricted. He admitted he had been charged with possession of 
marijuana at the time of the DWI and that the charge was dismissed a part of the 
disposition of the DWI. (GX 1-3, 5, 7-8) 
Personal Conduct 
SOR ¶ 2.a cross-alleged the above Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse 
security concerns under Personal Conduct. Applicant admitted the conduct and further 
stated that his marijuana use occurred from July 1996 through November 2004 and 
again in November 2022. (GX 1-2) 
SOR ¶ 2.c alleged that Applicant falsified his answer in his March 2013 SF86 in 
response to the question in “Section 23: Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity: ” “In 
the last seven years, have you illegally used any drugs or controlled substances?” SOR 
¶ 2.d alleged that Applicant falsified his answer in his March 2013 SF86 i n response to 
the question in “Section 23: Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity: ” “In the last seven 
years, have you been involved in the illegal purchase, manufacture, cultivation, 
trafficking, production, transfer, shipping, receiving, handling or sale of any drug or 
controlled substance?” SOR ¶ 2.b allege d that Applicant falsified his answer in his 
August 2020 SF85 i n response to the question in “Section 14: Illegal Drugs:” “In the 
last year, have you used, possessed, supplied, or manufactured illegal drugs?” 
Applicant answered “No” to all of these questions. In his SOR Answer, he stated his 
responses to the questions were accurate as his last use of marijuana, prior to 
November 2022, was in November 2004, which fell outside of the date ranges 
referenced in the questions. (GX 1-4) 
Applicant did not respond to the FORM and did not provide any additional 
clarifying information. In review of the evidence, there have been no other reported 
arrests or criminal charges against him since 2004. Beyond the current security 
concerns reflected in the SOR, there are no other reported incidents relating to his 
holding of a security clearance. (GX 2, 5-7, 9) 
4 
Policies 
I
t is well established that no one has a right to a security clearance. As the 
Supreme Court held in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent standard 
indicates that security determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” 
484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988) 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 
2(a), the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as 
the “whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, 
reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in 
making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I 
have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the 
evidence contained in the record. Likewise, I have not drawn inferences grounded on 
mere speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation of potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
5 
Analysis 
Guideline H: Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse 
AG ¶ 24 provides the security concern arising from drug involvement and 
substance misuse stating: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior 
may lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any “controlled substance” 
as defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term 
adopted in this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
The adjudicative guidelines note several conditions that could raise security 
concerns under AG ¶ 25. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a) any substance misuse (see above definition); 
(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation, 
pr
ocessing, manufacture, purchase, sale, or distribution; or possession of 
drug paraphernalia; and 
(f) any illegal drug use while granted access to classified information or 
hol
ding a sensitive position. 
In hi
s September 2023 SF86 and subsequent SF85, Applicant disclosed that he 
first used marijuana in either 1995 or 1996 and last used marijuana in November 2022. 
During his December 2023 interview with a background investigator, it was noted that 
he used marijuana from July 1996 through November 2022 . No break in marijuana use 
was reflected in that summary. Instead, Applicant described using marijuana socially, as 
well as to help him sleep, and that he would use it on the weekends. He also detailed 
that he spent about $50 per month on marijuana and that he used it while possessing a 
security clearance. 
In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant distinguished that he regularly used 
marijuana from July 1996 through November 2004, which would include marijuana use 
at the time of his October 2004 arrest on charges of DWI and possession of marijuana. 
He then claimed he did not use marijuana again until November 2022. This reflects a 
large break in marijuana use that is not otherwise reflected in the evidence. 
6 
While there is variation in evidence regarding the frequency of Applicant’s 
marijuana use, he consistently stated he began possessing and using marijuana in the 
mid-1990s, was using marijuana into 2004, and used as recently as November 2022. 
Marijuana is listed on Schedule I of the Controlled Substances Act. See 21 U.S.C. § 
812(c); Drug Enforcement Administration listing at https://www.dea.gov/drug-
information/drug-scheduling. Even this restricted period of marijuana use, as reflected in 
Applicant’s Answer, is sufficient to establish the security concerns under AG ¶¶ 25(a) 
and 25(c) for SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.c. 
Applicant also admitted to using marijuana while granted access to classified 
information and disclosed that he accessed two federal installations to perform his work. 
In ISCR Case No. 22 -02623 at 4 (App. Bd. Jan. 24, 2024), the DOHA Appeal Board 
discussed the term of “holding a sensitive position” as follows: 
For purposes of national security eligibility determinations, the Directive 
defines “sensitive position” as: 
Any position within or in support of an agency in which the 
occupant could bring about, by virtue of the nature of the 
position, a material adverse effect on the national security 
regardless of whether the occupant has access to classified 
information, and regardless of whether the occupant is an 
employee, military service member, or contractor. 
SEAD 4, ¶ D.8. We have previously held that this broad language is 
“designed to be inclusive and encompass a wide range of positions, 
including those that require eligibility for access to classified information 
(i.e., a security clearance).” ISCR Case No. 22-01661 at 4 (App. Bd. Sep. 
21, 2023). The term “sensitive position” is not so broad, however, to 
encompass any and all employment with a defense contractor. 
Applicant’s marijuana use in November 2022 occurred while he held a security 
clearance and while he held a sensitive position. However, the SOR only alleged that 
his use occurred “while granted access to classified information,” and did not allege his 
marijuana use occurred while he held a sensitive position. The evidence does not 
establish that his marijuana use occurred while he was granted access to classified 
information. Eligibility for access to classified information and the granting of access to 
classified information are not synonymous concepts. In order to gain access to specific 
classified materials, an individual must not only have eligibility (i.e., a security 
clearance), but also must have signed a nondisclosure agreement and have a “need to 
know.” See ISCR Case No. 20 -03111 at 3 (App. Bd. Aug. 10, 2022). The security 
concern under AG ¶ 25(f) has not been established for SOR ¶ 1.b. 
AG ¶ 26 lists conditions that could mitigate drug involvement and substance 
misuse security concerns. The following are potentially applicable: 
7 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or happened 
und
er such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or does not cast doubt 
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment; 
and 
(b) the individual acknowledges his or her drug involvement and 
s
ubstance misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this 
problem, and has established a pattern of abstinence, including, but not 
limited to: (1) disassociation from drug- using associates and contacts; (2) 
changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were used; and (3) 
providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug involvement 
and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future involvement or 
misuse is grounds for revocation of national security eligibility. 
The S
ecurity Executive Agent (SecEA) promulgated clarifying guidance 
concerning marijuana-related issues in security clearance adjudications as follows: 
[Federal] agencies are instructed that prior recreational marijuana use by 
an individual may be relevant to adjudications but not determinative. The 
SecEA has provided direction in [the adjudicative guidelines] to agencies 
that requires them to use a “whole- person concept.” This requires 
adjudicators to carefully weigh a few variables in an individual’s life to 
determine whether that individual’s behavior raises a security concern, if 
at all, and whether that concern has been mitigated such that the 
individual may now receive a favorable adjudicative determination. 
Relevant mitigations include, but are not limited to, frequency of use and 
whether the individual can demonstrate that future use is unlikely to recur, 
including by signing an attestation or other such appropriate mitigation. 
Additionally, in light of the long- standing federal law and policy prohibiting 
illegal drug use while occupying a sensitive position or holding a security 
clearance, agencies are encouraged to advise prospective national 
security workforce employees that they should refrain from any future 
marijuana use upon initiation of the national security vetting process, 
which commences once the individual signs the certification contained in 
the Standard Form 86 (SF -86), Questionnaire for National Security 
Positions. 
Security Executive Agent Clarifying Guidance Concerning Marijuana for Agencies 
Conducting Adjudications of Persons Proposed for Eligibility for Access to Classified 
Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (Dec. 21, 2021) at 2 (quoted in 
ISCR Case No. 20-02974 at 3-4 (App. Bd. Feb. 1, 2022)). 
The DOHA Appeal Board cited the importance of consider ing “the changing 
landscape of marijuana law and . . . of the Director of National Intelligence’s Clarifying 
8 
Guidance Concerning Marijuana. ” ISCR Case No. 23 -02402 at 4 (App. Bd. Feb. 19, 
2025). See also ISCR Case No. 24-00914 at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 9, 2025). 
Applicant began using marijuana as early as 1995 and as recently as November 
2022. It cannot be said that his use of marijuana happened so long ago or was 
infrequent. However, in his SOR Answer, Applicant stated that his use of marijuana in 
November 2022 followed the passing of his mother. While he did not provide further 
detail, it can be inferred that this was likely an emotional event for him and his marijuana 
use may have occurred under unique circumstances. Mitigation under AG ¶ 26(a) must 
be considered. 
Applicant is also credited with disclosure of his marijuana use during the security 
clearance process. In his September 2023 SF86, he stated his intent to not use 
marijuana in the future as he no longer “[has] a need or want to do it anymore.” 
Mitigation under AG ¶ 26(b) must also be considered. 
However, the time between his most recent involvement with marijuana and his 
Answer to the SOR was less than two years . In consideration of his prior history of 
marijuana use as well as his most recent marijuana use occurring after he filled out his 
March 2013 SF86 and while in a sensitive position, this recent period of abstinence is 
insufficient to conclude that Applicant’s marijuana use is entirely in his past and no 
longer casts doubt on his reliability, trustworthiness or judgment. Applicant has not met 
his burden to mitigate the security concerns. M itigation under AG ¶¶ 26(a) and 26(b) is 
not applicable. 
Guideline E: Personal Conduct 
AG ¶ 15 provides the security concern arising from personal conduct stating: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect 
classified information. Of special interest is any failure to provide truthful 
and candid answers during the security clearance process or any other 
failure to cooperate with the security clearance process. 
The adjudicative guidelines note conditions that could raise security concerns 
under AG ¶ 16. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a) deliberate omission, concealment, or falsification of relevant facts from 
any personnel security questionnaire, personal history statement, or 
similar form used to conduct investigations, determine employment 
qualifications, award benefits or status, determine national security 
eligibility or trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities; and 
9 
(e) personal conduct, or concealment of information about one's conduct, 
that creates a vulnerability to exploitation, manipulation, or duress by a 
foreign intelligence entity or other individual or group. Such conduct 
includes: (1) engaging in activities which, if known, could affect the 
person's personal, professional, or community standing; (2) while in 
another country, engaging in any activity that is illegal in that country; (3) 
while in another country, engaging in any activity that, while legal there, is 
illegal in the United States. 
The SOR allegations under Guideline H were cross -alleged under Guideline E. 
Applicant’s conduct reflects questionable judgment and an unwillingness to comply with 
rules and regulations. This conduct is sufficient for an adverse determination under 
Guideline H, previously discussed. However, the general security concern under AG ¶ 
15 is established. Additionally, d uring his December 2023 background interview, he 
admitted that his employer was unaware of his marijuana use. His conduct created a 
vulnerability to exploitation, manipulation, and duress. The security concern under AG ¶ 
16(e) is established for SOR ¶ 2.a.   
SOR ¶¶ 2.b through 2.d allege that Applicant falsified aspects of his March 2013 
SF86 and August 2020 SF85 by intentionally failing to disclose his marijuana use. 
Although Applicant admitted the SOR allegations, he did not admit that he falsified his 
applications. When a falsification allegation is controverted, as in this case, the 
Government has the burden of proving it. An omission, standing alone, does not prove 
falsification. An administrative judge must consider the record evidence as a whole to 
determine an applicant’s state of mind at the time of the omission. See ISCR Case No. 
03-09483 at 4 (App. Bd. Nov. 17, 2004) An applicant’s experience and level of 
education are relevant to determining whether a failure to disclose relevant information 
on a security clearance application was deliberate. See ISCR Case No. 08-05637 (App. 
Bd. Sep. 9, 2010) 
In review of the evidence, Applicant disclosed in his September 2023 SF86 and 
subsequent SF85 that he first used marijuana in either 1995 or 1996 and as recently as 
November 2022. The summary of his December 2023 background interview reflects 
that he “used marijuana from 07/1996 to 11/2022. ” In that interview, he also provided 
details of the circumstances of his marijuana use. Although he did not further comment 
on the accuracy of the interview summary, in his Answer to the SOR, he clarified that he 
used marijuana from 1996 through November 2004 and again in November 2022. 
Given that Applicant voluntarily disclosed his marijuana use during the security 
clearance process, including his marijuana use while in a sensitive position, I do not find 
that Applicant intentionally falsified his March 2013 SF86 and August 2020 SF85 . The 
security concern under AG ¶ 16(a) has not been established for SOR ¶¶ 2.b through 
2.d. 
10 
I have considered the mitigating conditions for personal conduct under AG ¶ 17 
and the following are potentially applicable: 
(c) the offense is so minor, or so much time has passed, or the behavior is 
s
o infrequent, or it happened under such unique circumstances that it is 
unlikely to recur and does not cast doubt on the individual's reliability, 
trustworthiness, or good judgment; and 
(e) the individual has taken positive steps to reduce or eliminate 
v
ulnerability to exploitation, manipulation, or duress. 
Appl
icant’s use of marijuana in November 2022 while working in a sensitive 
position was recent and not minor . While he disclosed his marijuana use in his 
September 2023 SF86 and subsequent SF85, his employer remains unaware. Although 
he cites his mother’s passing as a unique circumstance relating to that use, given his 
previous history of using marijuana, insufficient time has passed for Applicant to have 
established that the behavior is unlikely to recur and that he has sufficiently reduced the 
vulnerability to exploitation, manipulation or duress. Mitigation under AG ¶¶ 17(c) and 
17(e) is not applicable. 
Whole-Person Concept 
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of 
rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation 
for the conduct; (8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or 
duress; and (9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
the facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments 
under Guideline H and Guideline E in my whole-person analysis. 
11 
______
_______________________ 
Applicant did not request a hearing, and I did not have the opportunity to 
question him further about his past conduct or to assess his credibility by observing his 
demeanor. See ISCR Case No. 01-12350 at 3-4 (App. Bd. Jul. 23, 2003). However, the 
record reflects that he used marijuana from the mid- 1990s through 2004 and again as 
recently as November 2022. While he voluntarily disclosed his marijuana use in his 
September 2023 SF86 and subsequent SF85, he has not provided sufficient mitigation 
of the security concerns or established the reliability, trustworthiness and judgment 
necessary to maintain a security clearance. 
Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts as to 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. I conclude that Applicant did 
not mitigate the drug involvement and substance misuse or the personal conduct 
security concerns. 
Formal Findings 
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline H: AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph 1.a: Against Applicant 
Subparagraph 1.b: For Applicant 
Subparagraph 1.c: Against Applicant 
Paragraph 2,  Guideline E: AGAI
NST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph 2. a: Agai
nst Applicant 
Subparagraphs 2.b – 2.d: For Applicant 
Subparagraph 2.e: Withdrawn 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances, it is not clearly consistent with the national 
interest to grant Applicant a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified 
information is denied. 
Bryan J. Olmos 
Administrative Judge 
12 