 
 
 
  
                                                              
                             
          
           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
    
     
      
  
  
     
   
 
     
 
  
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
 
In  the matter  of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR  Case No.  24-02353  
  )    
 )  
Applicant for  Security Clearance  )  
Appearan
ces 
For Government: Aubrey De Angelis, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
06/13/2025 
Decision 
LOKEY ANDERSON, Darlene D., Administrative Judge: 
Statement of Case  
On December 20, 2024, the De partment of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement 
of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline J, Criminal 
Conduct. The action was taken under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of 
Defense Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines 
(AG) effective for cases after June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR on January 13, 2025, and requested a hearing 
before an administrative judge. The case was assigned to me on April 10, 2025.  The 
Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a notice of hearing on April 11, 
1 
 
 
 
      
   
    
   
 
     
 
  
      
 
    
  
  
 
    
 
 
   
    
    
    
 
  
  
   
  
        
 
   
    
  
 
  
    
 
  
    
  
 
   
  
 
  
    
2025, and the hearing was convened as scheduled on May 20, 2025.  The Government 
offered four exhibits, which were marked as Government Exhibits 1 through 4, and were 
admitted into evidence without objection. The Applicant offered seven exhibits which 
were marked as Applicant’s Exhibits A through G, and were admitted into evidence 
without objection.  He called four witnesses and testified on his own behalf.  D OHA 
received the transcript of the hearing (Tr.) on June 2, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 30 years old single, and has no children.  He has a high school 
diploma, about two years of college, and has Welding and Air Frame Power Plant 
certificates.  He has no military training.  He holds the position of Aircraft Mechanic with 
a defense contractor.  A security clearance is required in connection with this 
employment. 
Guideline J  –  Criminal Conduct  
The SOR alleges that Applicant has a history of criminal conduct involving an 
arrest in November 2016, for Possession of a Controlled Substance, marijuana; an 
arrest in July 2019, for Boating while Under the Influence; and an arrest for Battery by 
Strangulation in June 2021. 
Applicant started working for his current employer as a Maintenance Mechanic 
on December 5, 2022, in State A.  In July 2023, he was promoted to the position of 
Aircraft Mechanic 1, on an Air Force Base in State A.  In October 2024, his company 
transferred him to work in the same position in State B.  He applied for a security 
clearance for the first time on March 28, 2024.  (Government Exhibit 1.) 
In November 2016, Applicant was arrested for Possession of a Controlled 
Substance.  He explained that he was with a friend who had a big sack of marijuana. 
Applicant was using some of the marijuana to roll a joint.  Applicant and his friend were 
leaving a club and getting into his friend’s car when they noticed police sitting across the 
street watching them.  As soon as they drove off, the police hit their lights and pulled 
them over.  Applicant stated that he freaked out and threw the joint out of the window. 
Applicant stated that the police made him get out of the vehicle and sit in the police car, 
while they searched his side of his friend’s vehicle.  They found a small crumb of 
marijuana.  Had they done a full search they would have found that his friend was sitting 
on a big sack of marijuana.  Applicant’s friend convinced the police not to arrest the 
Applicant because he was in school.  Applicant was charged with Possession of a 
Controlled Substance.  Applicant stated that he has not used marijuana since 2017. 
(Tr. pp. 73- 75.)  At court, Applicant made a plea deal to get the guilty adjudication 
withheld.  He was placed on probation for six months, fined, and required to take an on-
line course.  He completed the sentencing requirements and later had the matter 
sealed.  (Tr. pp. 73-77.) 
2 
 
 
 
 
    
  
  
  
      
  
  
   
    
    
  
     
 
   
       
 
 
 
   
     
   
     
   
 
   
 
    
  
      
    
   
  
  
 
    
   
Not alleged in the SOR is a minor incident that occurred in 2014, when Applicant 
was with the same friend he was with during his 2016 arrest, and was cited by the 
police for being a Minor in Possession of Alcohol.  Applicant admitted that he was under 
the age of 21 and was consuming alcohol at the beach.  Applicant stated that he had to 
do an online course and pay a fine.  He was not arrested.  (Tr. pp. 78-79.) 
On July 4, 2019, Applicant was arrested for Boating Under the Influence of 
Alcohol.  Applicant explained that he had rented, and was the driver of a double decker 
pontoon boat.  There were about 11 or more people on the boat who had been partying 
all day.  He had consumed about 3 or 4 beers throughout the day, and he believes that 
he was the most fit to drive.  Boating Security was checking boats and they pulled the 
Applicant’s boat over.  They asked him to take a breathalyzer, and he refused.  They 
cited him for refusal to take the breathalyzer, and charged him with reckless operation 
of a vessel, a reduced charge of boating under the influence.  Applicant had to take an 
on-line alcohol class and pay costs.  (Tr. pp. 79-81.) 
Applicant and his roommate lived in the house that  his roommate owned in State  
A.  During May  and June 2021,  Applicant dated a girl for  a few months.  Their  
relationship was tumultuous.  In June 2021,  Applicant  told her that their relationship was  
over.  She was upset and one night she trespassed onto the property, went into the  
backyard where Applicant’s car was parked,  and  “keyed”  his vehicle on both the driver’s  
side and passenger’s  side.  Applicant’s roommate told the Applicant that  the girl was not  
permitted in his house, and if she ever returned again, Applicant  would be kicked out.   
Applicant reported his damaged car to the police,  and his  ex-girlfriend admitted doing  
the crime.  (Applicant’s Exhibit C.)  
Applicant testified that the following weekend he was out at a bar and he saw his 
ex-girlfriend. She came over to him and told him that she was going to see him that 
night.  He told her, “No”.  That evening, another female gave him a ride home from the 
bar and then he went to bed.  He woke up during the night to find that his ex -girlfriend 
had broken into the house and was trying to give him oral sex.  He told her to get off of 
him and leave.  He called the police.  His ex -girlfriend asked him not to call the police, 
but to take her to her car down the road at the apartments where she had parked, and 
she would leave.  So he did.  At that time, Applicant’s roommate was leaving to go to 
work and saw Applicant’s ex-girlfriend’s car driving towards his house.  After he left for 
work, Applicant’s ex-girlfriend showed back up at the house claiming that she had left 
her wallet. Applicant let her in the house to get her wallet.  Applicant ended up having 
sex with her and then fell asleep. When he woke up, she was trying to transfer money 
from his account into her account using Venmo.  She had changed all of his social 
media passwords, and she had shared his location with her phone.  She was doing all 
of this without his knowledge.  Applicant stated that he was angry and grabbed his 
phone from her and walked into the bathroom.  She followed him, she was angry and 
frustrated, and kept ranting about him breaking up with her.  Applicant claims that she 
ended up pushing him into the tub.  Applicant tried to stand up and she tried to push him 
3 
 
 
 
 
        
  
   
    
     
           
  
  
 
  
    
  
      
    
   
   
 
  
      
   
 
    
 
     
    
   
 
   
    
  
   
 
 
     
  
   
   
    
                
 
   
  
   
 
back down when he grabbed her by her hair and told her to stop.  They ended up 
talking things out, and they had sex one last time.  She then left the house, and went to 
the hospital, and claimed that the Applicant choked her and slammed her head against 
a cabinet.  Applicant believes that his ex-girlfriend was upset because he did not want to 
date her anymore.  (At some point, Applicant went down to the fishing docks to find his 
roommate to let him know that he did not invite her in the house, but that she had 
broken in the house.) (Tr. pp. 82- 98, and Government Exhibit 2.) 
The Sheriff’s report of the incident indicates that Applicant’s ex -girlfriend stated 
that she went to the hospital because she was having a hard time swallowing.  The 
officer observed that she had a bruise on the side of her forehead, a small laceration on 
the inside of her upper lip, and bruises on her right arm.  (Applicant’s Exhibit F.) 
Applicant’s ex-girlfriend’s version of the altercation is very different than the 
Applicant’s.  She stated that he invited her to his home.  She stated that she arrived 
prior to him, and when she made contact with him he was extremely intoxicated.  After 
getting in his vehicle, she removed his keys from his truck ignition.  She stated that he 
grabbed her by her hair and slammed her head in the dashboard area of the truck.  She 
then began recording him with her phone. Standing in the porch area of the house, he 
grabbed her by her hair again and pulled her inside the residence and threw her to the 
ground.  He sat on her chest and took her phone and demanded that she give him her 
pass code so the recording could be erased.  She refused to give it to him.  He then 
began choking her and she had to gasp for air , and ultimately, she gave him the pass 
code and the footage was erased.  As she was getting up, he pushed her and the left 
side of her head hit a counter in the bathroom. She told the sheriff that she is able to 
see Applicant’s location on her phone , and she provided that information to them. 
(Applicant’s Exhibit F.) 
Applicant was at a friend’s house when the police arrived looking for him. The 
police questioned him about the altercation. Applicant told the police his version of what 
occurred, and that she broke into the house.  He also denied having strangled her. 
They told him that there was obviously some domestic violence, and someone had to 
go to jail.  Applicant was arrested and charged with a Battery by Strangulation and 
Domestic Violence.  In court, Applicant pled not guilty.  His ex -girlfriend failed to appear 
at the hearing.  Applicant’s attorney advised him to take the plea bargain.  Applicant 
accepted the plea bargain agreement and adjudication of guilt was withheld.  He was 
required to pay a fine of $500, pay the cost of prosecution fee of $50, pay restitution of 
$796.80 to the victim, complete an on -line anger management course, and provide 
proof of completion at the time of the entry of the plea, and have no contact with the 
victim.  (Applicant’s Exhibit F.)  Applicant satisfied all of sentencing conditions. 
Applicant’s roommate, who owns the house they lived in, testified that Applicant’s 
ex-girlfriend was “trouble”.  She and Applicant dated for only a few months.  She was 
always picking fights and screaming and hollering at the Applicant.  She was much 
younger than the Applicant, maybe 18 years old, very jealous, very manipulative, and 
4 
 
 
 
   
 
    
  
  
    
  
    
   
      
 
   
 
     
   
      
     
 
   
    
   
  
  
    
    
    
  
    
 
   
     
 
 
     
 
  
    
    
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
always “out for trouble”.  She would show up unannounced at their house and just bust 
in the door.  He is a Charter Fisherman, who has to leave very early in the morning to 
go to work, and she would drive around the neighborhood until he left the house and 
then come over.  He verbally told the girl that she was no longer welcome at the house. 
She “keyed” Applicant’s vehicle, and snuck in the house numerous times.  He actually 
called the Applicant the day of the altercation and told him that he saw her driving in the 
neighborhood and asked him if she was at the house.  Applicant told him that she had 
come over.  That’s when the altercation started. What he was told was that she shoved 
the Applicant into the shower , and tore down the shower rod and the curtain.  (Tr. pp. 
34-52.) 
Applicant testified that he has learned a valuable lesson from his experience with 
his ex-girlfriend.  He realizes that he must be careful about the women he allows in his 
life.  He was raised to never “lay a hand” on a woman.  Every day he grows to be a 
better person.  He has not been in trouble since leaving his ex -girlfriend. He is a 
different person now. He no longer goes out drinking like he did when he was younger. 
He spends his free time in the gym.  (Tr. pp. 98-99.) 
Three witnesses who work with the Applicant testified on his behalf.  They 
include, his past Maintenance Manager, the Production Superintendent, and a Pilot. 
They are all very pleased with the Applicant and his work product. They refer to him as 
an outstanding employee with a great work ethic.  He is punctual, happy, easy to get 
along with, and well respected.  They have had no performance issues or concerns with 
him since he started working with them.  He does his job correctly the first time, and he 
has never had to get anything re- done.  He is a great member of the team.  In fact, he 
was so valuable that they offered him a full -time job with a contractor and then the 
opportunity to move once that contract ended, because they wanted to ensure that he 
had continued employment.  (Tr. pp. 18, 21, 27-29, and 54-57.) 
A letter of recommendation from Applicant’s current Maintenance Manager who 
is also his supervisor and has worked with the Applicant for about one year, states that 
Applicant has exceptional character, professionalism, and reliability.  Applicant is trusted 
with the daily maintenance and safety of millions of dollars worth of equipment and, 
more importantly , the lives of their pilots.  His technical expertise exemplifies his 
unwavering integrity, sound judgment, and attention to detail.  He consistently 
demonstrates a commitment to excellence and safety, and he is trustworthy beyond 
reproach.  He has earned the respect and admiration of his colleagues and supervisors , 
who rely on his expertise and judgment every day , and he is highly recommended for a 
security clearance. (Applicant’s Exhibit G.) 
5 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
      
   
 
  
   
      
    
  
      
   
 
 
 
   
     
 
 
 
 
       
     
  
    
     
  
 
    
 
    
   
   
      
   
  
 
 
   
  
     
    
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for national security eligibility, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The 
administrative judge’s over arching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and 
commonsense decision.  The entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of 
variables known as the whole- person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I 
have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical and based on the 
evidence contained in the record. Likewise, I have avoided drawing inferences 
grounded on mere speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, 
or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel .” The 
applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable clearance 
decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation as to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
    
      
 
 
  
 
   
     
 
    
     
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis 
Guideline J  –  C
 riminal Conduct  
The s
ecurity concern relating to the guideline for Criminal Conduct is set out in 
AG ¶ 30: 
Criminal activity creates doubt about a person's judgment, reliability, and 
trustworthiness. By its very nature, it calls into question a person's ability 
or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations. 
The guideline at AG ¶ 31 contains five disqualifying conditions that could raise a 
security concern and may be disqualifying. Two conditions apply, as discussed below: 
(a) a pattern of  m
 inor offenses, any  one of which on its own would be  
unlikely to affect a  national security eligibility decision, but which in  
combination cast doubt  on the individual's judgment, reliability, or  
trustworthiness;  and   
(b) evidence (including, but not limited to, a credible allegation, an 
adm
ission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of  
whether the individual  was formally charged,  prosecuted, or convicted.  
Appel
lant’s criminal history includes the three arrests described above that can 
be attributed to ignorance, immaturity, and poor judgment. This conduct raises the 
above security concerns. 
The guideline in AG ¶ 32 contains several conditions that could mitigate criminal 
conduct security concerns. Two of the mitigating conditions are applicable in this case. 
(a) so much time has  el
 apsed since the criminal behavior happened, or it  
happened under such unusual circumstances, that it is unlikely  to recur  
and does not cast  doubt on the individual's reliability, trustworthiness, or  
good judgment;  and  
(d) there is evidence of successful rehabilitation; including, but not limited  
t
o, the passage of time without recurrence of criminal activity, restitution,  
compliance with the terms of parole or  probation, job training or higher  
education,  good employment record,  or constructive community  
involvement.  
7 
 
 
 
   
    
   
 
 
   
  
    
 
   
  
   
    
   
 
   
 
  
  
     
    
   
  
     
  
 
 
   
    
       
   
 
 
   
   
  
The true story of the altercation in 2021, lies somewhere between the Applicant’s 
version and his ex-girlfriend’s. What is clear is that since he left State A; and has gotten 
away from his ex -girlfriend, he has demonstrated that he is responsible, reliable, and 
trustworthy.  The last incident of criminal conduct Applicant was involved in was in June 
2021, about four years ago, and is unlikely to recur.  He was much younger and 
immature then.  He used drugs and alcohol for enjoyment, and he was in a bad 
relationship.  Over the past four years, he has grown up and matured.  He no longer 
uses marijuana.  In fact, he has not used marijuana for the past seven years, since 
2017, and has no intention of ever using it again.  He no longer abuses alcohol.  About 
once a month, he may have a glass of wine at dinner.  Furthermore, he now realizes 
how important it is to be careful about the women he associates with, and he knows that 
he cannot allow relationships with younger women, or those without sufficient maturity 
and good sense.  He has physically moved across the country for his job, getting far 
away from the ex -girlfriend, who once caused him serious problems.  He understands 
the responsibilities that come with holding a security clearance, and has chosen to live 
the responsible lifestyle that is required. 
Based upon the past four years, without any criminal misconduct, it is 
foreseeable that Applicant will remain professional, responsible, and use good judgment 
in all aspects of his life . He has too much to lose if he engages in any future 
misconduct or criminal behavior, or associates with individuals who engage i n such. He 
must continue to live his life “ on the straight and narrow ” and demonstrate good 
judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness.  There is sufficient evidence in the record to 
show that he is eligible for access to classified information. Appellant has mitigated the 
Government’s concerns under the Criminal Conduct guideline. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5)  the  extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of  
rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation  
for the conduct; (8) the potential for  pressure, coercion, exploitation,  or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
    
        
 
 
 
  
  
 
    
 
    
 
 
 
 
      
     
  
                                                
 
 
 
 
 
 
            
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
relevant facts and circumstances surrounding this case. Applicant has not engaged in 
any criminal conduct for the past four years, and his future is promising.  In addition, his 
supervisor and other professional colleagues attest to his outstanding work 
performance, professionalism, good judgment, and responsible character.  Based upon 
the totality of this information, he has sufficiently mitigated his past criminal conduct. 
Accordingly, Applicant has mitigated the Criminal Conduct security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  Guideline F:   FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.
 a. through 1.c.   Fo
r Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue Applicant’s national 
security eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information 
is granted. 
Darlene Lokey Anderson 
Administrative Judge 
9 