 
 
  
                                                              
                             
          
           
 
 
 
    
  
       
     
  
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
     
 
  
    
   
  
  
     
     
   
    
  
 
 
    
    
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00270 
) 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: John Renehan, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
12/02/2025 
Decision 
LOKEY ANDERSON, Darlene D., Administrative Judge: 
Statement of Case  
On March 8, 2023, Applicant submitted a security clearance application ( e-QIP). 
On July 9, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency Consolidated 
Adjudication Services (DCSA CA S) issued Applicant a Statement of Reasons (SOR), 
detailing security concerns under Guideline F, Financial Considerations. The action was 
taken under Executive Order 10865 (EO), Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DoD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial 
Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended 
(Directive); and the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility 
for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), 
effective within the DoD after June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR on a date uncertain and requested a hearing before 
an administrative judge.  The case was assigned to me on June 30, 2025.  The Defense 
 
 
 
     
    
    
    
    
 
  
 
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
    
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
    
  
      
  
    
   
     
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
Office of Hearings and Appeals issued a notice of hearing on July 8, 2025, and the 
hearing was convened as scheduled on September 25, 2025.  The Government offered 
seven exhibits, referred to as Government Exhibits 1 through 7, which were admitted 
without objection. The Applicant offered six exhibits, referred to as Applicant’s Exhibit A 
through F, which were admitted without objection.  Applicant testified on his own behalf. 
The record remained open until close of business on October 16, 2025, to allow the 
Applicant the opportunity to submit additional supporting documentation.  Applicant 
submitted five additional documents, referred to as Applicant’s Post -Hearing Exhibits A 
through E, which were admitted into evidence without objection. D OHA received the 
transcript of the hearing (Tr.) on October 7, 2025.  This decision was delayed when all 
administrative judges were furloughed from October 1 through November 12, 2025, 
during a federal government shutdown due to a lapse in federal funding. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 43 years old.  He has a fiancé and four children.  He has a 
Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering.  He holds the position of Electrical 
Engineer.  He is seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection with his 
employment with a defense contractor. 
Guideline F - Financial Considerations  
The Government alleged that Applicant is ineligible for a clearance because he 
made financial decisions that indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which raise questions about his 
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information. 
The SOR identified eight delinquent debts totaling approximately $211,000 that 
includes a mortgage account; a car loan; Federal tax debt; and other miscellaneous 
debt.  Applicant also failed to timely file Federal tax returns for seven tax years, from 
2015 through 2022. In addition, he filed Bankruptcy in 2011 that was dismissed in 
2012.  Applicant admitted allegations 1.a., 1.c., 1.g., and 1.i of the SOR under this 
guideline. He denied the other allegations with explanations.  Cr edit reports of the 
Applicant dated March 22, 2023; April 4, 2024; and June 14, 2024, confirm the 
indebtedness listed in the SOR.  (Government Exhibits 4, 5, and 6.)  Applicant started 
working for his current employer in January 2021.  He has never held or applied for a 
security clearance before. 
The following delinquent debts are of security concern: 
2 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
1.a.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for  a delinquent debt in the amount of  
$70,468 that was charged off.  This was  a car loan that Applicant co-signed for his sister  
in July 2022.  She purchased the car for approximately $58,000 to $60,000.  After about  
a year of  making payments, Applicant’s sister defaulted on the loan.  Applicant helped  
his sister make payments on the car for a while.  (Tr. p. 23- 24.)   Applicant is currently in  
negotiations with the creditor to settle the account.  The creditor initially agreed to settle  
the account for $35,000, but  no payment arrangements have been made yet.   (Tr. p.  
27.)  Applicant hopes to continue negotiations to reach a lesser  amount, somewhere  
between $20,000 and $25,000, and a monthly payment  of between $600 and $800.  (Tr.  
p.  30.)   Applicant is also looking for part -time work to subsidize his income to afford to  
pay  this  debt.   Following the hearing, Applicant agreed to s  ettle the account for  
$28,185.32.  He made his first payment of $587.19 on November 1, 2025.   These  
payments are to continue each month for  28 months  to resolve the debt.  (Applicant’s  
Post-Hearing Exhibit D.)  The debt is being resolved.             
1.b.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for  a delinquent debt in the amount of  
$1,300 that was placed for collection.  This is for damage to a closet wall that occurred  
when a pipe burst in an apartment Applicant  was renting.  He contends that the smoke  
damage occurred during the repair and that he is not responsible for the damage.   
Applicant is disputing the debt with the creditor.   Applicant stated that if he is found  
liable, he will pay the debt.  (Tr. p. 35.)   Following the hearing, Applicant set up a  
payment plan,  and made his first payment  of $324.94 that  he plans to continue each  
month for at total  of four months  to resolve the debt.  (Applicant’s  Post-Hearing Exhibit  
B.)  The debt is being resolved.                 
1.c.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for  a delinquent debt in the amount  of  
$309 that was charged off.  This was Applicant’s  electricity  bill that arrived at his credit  
union after  he had switched accounts to another bank.  In order  to resolve the debt,  
Applicant  stated that he must physically go the bank,  but he has not  had the t ime with  
his working hours.  Following the hearing, on October 15, 2025, Applicant paid the debt  
off in full.  (Applicant’s  Post-Hearing Exhibit C.)  The debt is no longer owing.        
1.d.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for  a delinquent debt in the amount of  
$277 that was charged off.  Applicant showed that  he made a payment of $277.16 on  
September 19, 2024,  which completely resolved the debt.  (Tr. p. 38, and Applicant’s  
Exhibit A.)  The debt is no longer  owing.          
1.e.   Applicant is indebted to a creditor for  a delinquent debt in the amount of  
$267 that was placed for collection.  This was an insurance billing problem that  
Applicant resolved by  showing a receipt for  payment in the amount of  $133.85.  (Tr. p.  
43,  and Applicant’s Exhibit B.)  The debt is no longer owing.        
1.f.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for a delinquent debt in the amount  of  
$135 that was placed for collection.  Applicant resolved the debt on September 19,  
3 
 
 
 
 
       
 
 
   
    
 
   
    
    
 
  
            
    
    
2024, with a payment receipt in the amount of $135.38.  (Applicant’s Exhibit C.)  The 
debt is no longer owing. 
1.g.  Applicant failed to timely file his Federal income tax returns  for tax years  
2015 through at least 2022.  As of the date of the SOR, these Federal income tax  
returns remain unfiled.  Applicant stated that  when his taxes were simple, he filed them  
on time.   In 2015, when his tax returns became complicated, he hired a childhood  
friend and his wife, who had opened a tax  office,  to file his returns.   Shortly thereafter,  
the couple went through a divorce, and Applicant’s tax returns were never filed.   When  
Applicant  contacted his  friend about  his tax  returns, he was told that an amendment  
would be filed on his  behalf, and that Applicant’s tax returns would be filed, but  they  
never were.  In addition, Applicant stated that he had problems  reaching a previous  
employer to get an employee identification (EIP) number that he needed for  one or two  
of his income tax returns.  (Tr. p. 45.)    
Applicant stated that in 2021 or 2022, he hired a new tax preparer who actually 
filed all of his delinquent tax returns, except for tax years 2015 and 2016.  He stated that 
she was unable to file returns for 2015 and 2016 because she has been unable to get 
Applicant’s EIP number from his previous employer.  (Tr. p. 47.)  He provided copies of 
the Federal income tax returns that were filed for 2018, 2019, and 2020.  (Applicant’s 
Exhibit D.)  He provided no copies of the other returns.  He stated that has filed all of his 
Federal income tax returns up to date.  He owes no Federal back taxes for years where 
he failed to file a return.  In fact, he stated that he is expecting refunds for tax years 
2020, 2021, and 2022.  (Tr. p. 54, and Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit A.) 
1.h.  Applicant is indebted to the IRS in the amount  of  $1,007.93, for outstanding  
taxes for tax year 2014.  Applicant denied this debt because he claims the debt was  a  
previous  balance he owed that was cleared  up when he filed his income tax returns  for  
tax years  2017, 2018,  2019,  2020, and 2021.   Since Applicant is  now receiving refunds  
from  his most recent  tax return filings, it can be presumed that this debt  has  been  
resolved.   (Tr. p.  58.)   The debt is  no longer owing.        
1.i.  Applicant  filed for Chapter 7 Bankruptcy in 2011, with liabilities in the  
approximate amount  of $138,871.68.  This debt was the amount remaining on  
Applicant’s mortgage account.   In March 2021, Applicant’s Bankruptcy was dismissed  
for failure to file a  certification of completion of the required personal financial  
management course.   Applicant explained  that the only reason  he initially filed for  
Bankruptcy in the first place was because his home was hit by a tornado and became  
uninhabitable.  His insurance was supposed to pay  for certain repairs, and they could  
not  afford to do so because of the extent  of the tornado damage to the neighborhood.   
Applicant  moved out  of the house and into an apartment.  He contacted someone who  
told him to file for Bankruptcy in order to get  more time for the process to work itself out.   
The results  of a subsequent lawsuit held Applicant’s  mortgage  company liable for  
defaulting on the loan and for negligence.  In the end, Applicant was not held liable for  
4 
 
 
 
    
       
   
   
   
  
      
  
    
 
 
      
    
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
      
   
 
 
   
      
    
  
      
   
 
 
 
   
     
 
 
 
 
       
     
anything.  (Tr. p. 59.) Applicant stated that this debt has been removed from his credit 
report.  The debt is no longer owing. 
Applicant stated that he believes his finances are extremely stable.  He earns 
about $130,000 annually, more money than what his bills require.  He stated that he 
now earns double the amount he used to make.  After paying his regular monthly 
expense he has about $3,000 left at the end of the month.  (Tr. p. 64.)  He has about 
$20,000 in savings and two retirement accounts that have $20,000 and $30,000 
respectively.  (Tr. pp. 64-66.) 
Applicant submitted a copy of a handwritten note thanking him for his excellent 
work performance.  Although Applicant was unable to obtain annual performance 
evaluations, information from his personnel file indicates that he is a very good electrical 
designer who has impressed the engineering staff.  He is described as a strong 
technical individual, who is a self -starter, and who is looking to grow.  He has 18 years 
of experience, and the company hopes to stretch him into leadership roles.  (Applicant’s 
Post-Hearing Exhibit E.) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The 
administrative judge’s over arching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and 
commonsense decision.  The entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of 
variables known as the whole- person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I 
have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical and based on the 
evidence contained in the record. Likewise, I have avoided drawing inferences 
grounded on mere speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
5 
 
 
 
  
    
     
  
 
    
 
    
  
    
      
    
    
 
   
  
     
    
 
 
 
 
       
 
  
   
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, 
or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel .” The 
applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable clearance 
decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The g overnment 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to 
potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline F -  Financial Considerations  
The security concern for Financial Considerations is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
Affluence that cannot be explained by known sources of income is also a 
security concern insofar as it may result from criminal activity, including 
espionage. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. Four are potentially applicable in this case: 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
              
   
   
  
(a) i
nability or unwillingness to satisfy debts ;   
(b) unwillingness  t o satisfy debts regardless of the ability to do so:  
(c) a history of not  m eeting financial  obligations; and  
(f) failure to file or fraudulently filing annual Federal, state, or local income 
t
ax returns  or failure to pay annual Federal, state,  or local income tax as  
required.  
Appl
icant has a history of being irresponsible by not addressing both his financial 
indebtedness and his income tax obligations.  His actions or inactions both demonstrate 
a history of poor judgment and untrustworthiness. The evidence is sufficient to raise the 
above disqualifying conditions. 
The following mitigating conditions under the Financial Considerations guideline 
are potentially applicable under AG ¶ 20. 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
und
er such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast  
doubt  on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good  
judgment;  
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely  
bey
ond the person’s control (e.g. loss  of employment, a business  
downturn, unexpected medical emergency, or a death, divorce, or  
separation), and the individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;   
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good faith effort  t o repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;    
(e) the individual has  a r easonable basis to  dispute the legitimacy  of the 
past-due debt  which i s  the c ause of the problem  and provides  
documented proof to  substantiate the basis of the dispute or provides  
evidence of actions to resolve the issue; and  
(g) the individual  ha s made arrangements with the appropriate tax  
authority to file or pay the amount  owed and is in compliance with those  
arrangements.  
Al
though Applicant began working for his current employer in 2021, his employer 
did not require him to apply for a security clearance until 2023. He has never held a 
security clearance before and was obviously not aware of the consequences his 
financial situation could have on his security clearance eligibility. His delinquent debts 
7 
 
 
 
 
              
  
  
  
  
 
    
    
   
 
    
 
 
   
    
       
  
  
 
  
   
and his  failure to timely file his Federal income tax returns for seven years clearly shows  
poor judgment, unreliability, and untrustworthiness.  After  a careful review of the  
evidence,  the largest debt listed in the SOR in the amount of $138,871, was not  
Applicant’s responsibility.  After deducting that  amount from the SOR, he was only  
delinquently indebted in the amount  of $73,295,  of which $70,000 was a loan he co-
signed for his sister.    In any event, after receiving the SOR on July 9, 2024,  he made  
an effort to address his delinquent debts  and his income tax  filings.  He paid off several  
small debts and filed all but  two of  his Federal income tax returns.   But, it was not  until  
the hearing that  he realized the seriousness and the importance of  demonstrating 
complete financial responsibility and how it  can impact  his ability  to access classified  
information.  Following the hearing,  he immediately set up payment plans  and made the  
first payments toward resolving each of the two remaining larger debts.  The remaining  
smaller  debt, he paid off in full.   Applicant has now addressed all of  his delinquent debts  
and is committed to resolving them as soon as possible.          
There is no question that Applicant is guilty of procrastination.  As previously 
stated, he has never held a security clearance before and was not fully aware of the 
requirements associated with possessing a security clearance.  Since learning of these 
requirements, Applicant has made a good- faith effort to resolve his debts and file his 
Federal income tax returns.  He now clearly understands that he must always be 
financially responsible going forward. He must resolve his debts on time, live within his 
means, and file his income tax returns on time.  His finances are now stable.  He earns 
twice as much as he used to.  At the end of the month he has about $3,000 left in 
discretionary funds.  At this time, there is sufficient evidence in the record to show that 
he has carried his burden of proof to establish mitigation of the government security 
concerns under Guideline F. Accordingly, Guideline F is found for the Applicant. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5)  the  extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of  
rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation  
for the conduct; (8) the potential for  pressure, coercion, exploitation,  or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
8 
 
 
 
    
 
     
 
 
 
     
     
 
 
 
  
    
 
  
 
   
 
    
 
  
     
      
                                                
 
 
 
 
 
 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. Applicant must follow 
through with his commitment to resolve his delinquent debts and show financial 
responsibility at all times going forward to be sufficiently reliable to properly protect and 
access classified information. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
relevant facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I conclude Applicant has 
mitigated the Financial Considerations security concern. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by ¶ E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  Guideline F:   FOR APPL
ICANT  
Subparagraphs  1. a. through 1.i.    For A pplicant  
Conclusion  
In l
ight of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue Applicant’s eligibility for 
a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Darlene Lokey Anderson 
Administrative Judge 
9 