 
 
  
 
  
        
         
           
             
 
 
  
  
      
   
    
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
     
        
 
   
       
   
 
   
 
   
   
   
     
   
 
    
 
______
________ 
______________ 
DEPART
MENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00653 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Karen Moreno-Sayles, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
09/12/2025 
Decision 
BENSON, Pamela C., Administrative Judge: 
Although Applicant refuted Guidelines B (foreign influence), D (sexual behavior), 
and E ( personal conduct), he did not mitigate Guideline F ( financial considerations) 
security concerns. National security eligibility for access to classified information is 
denied. 
    Statement of the Case  
On June 3, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) 
issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under 
Guidelines D, J, F, and E. The DCSA acted under Executive Order (EO) 10865, 
Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; 
Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security 
Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the 
adjudicative guidelines implemented by the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
On June 9, 2024, Applicant provided a response to the SOR (Answer). He denied 
the single SOR allegations alleged under Guidelines B, D, and E (SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 2.a, and 
 
 
      
      
 
  
     
     
   
   
  
 
  
   
    
 
     
  
        
  
     
 
 
     
 
  
   
 
  
    
   
   
    
 
 
    
 
       
 
   
     
    
    
     
   
    
      
 
3.a), and he adm
itted all the SOR allegations alleged under Guideline F (SOR ¶¶ 4 .a 
through 4.n.) He initially requested a decision be issued based on the administrative 
record, but on November 17, 2024, he changed his mind and requested a hearing before 
a Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) administrative judge. I was assigned 
this case on April 30, 2025. DOHA issued a notice on June 9, 2025, scheduling the 
hearing for July 15, 2025. On July 7, 2025, the Government amended the S OR to add 
one allegation (SOR ¶ 4.o) in that Applicant filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy in November 
2024, which was admitted. The hearing proceeded as scheduled via online video 
teleconferencing. 
Department Counsel submitted Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 17. Applicant 
testified and offered 23 documents, which I labeled as Applicant Exhibits (AE) A through 
W; and all of the exhibits were admitted into evidence without objection. Applicant 
testified, and he requested I hold the record open so he could supplement the record with 
additional documentation. Without objection, I held the record open until August 5, 2025. 
DOHA received the hearing transcript (Tr.) on July 2 3, 2025. On August 21, 2025, 
Applicant submitted numerous documents (AE X through AE FF) and 19 images (AE GG), 
which were more than two weeks after the record closed.  Department Counsel did not 
object and I admitted the documents into evidence. 
 Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 53 years old. He married in 2009 and divorced in 2013. He does not 
have any children. His parents immigrated into the U.S. in 1995, and through their 
sponsorship, Applicant immigrated to the U.S. in January 2003 at the age of 31. In July 
2008, he became a naturalized U.S. citizen. He attempted to join the U.S. Army upon his 
arrival, but he was medically disqualified. From 2014 to 2018, Applicant volunteered for 
[State X’s] Military Reserves military police, and he has been a volunteer for the U .S. 
Coast Guard Auxiliary as a guardsman since 2015. In mid-2023, Applicant applied for a 
linguist position with a federal contractor. This is his first application for a security 
clearance. (GE 2, 3, 6, 7) 
Foreign Influence,  Sexual Behavior, and Personal Conduct  
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges Applicant traveled to foreign countries, on numerous occasions, 
and solicited commercial sex and/or patronized a prostitute. He vehemently denied this 
allegation, which was also cross alleged under Guidelines D and E. (SOR ¶¶ 2.a and 3.a.) 
During the course of Applicant’s security background investigation for a linguist 
position, he was interviewed by U.S. Army investigators in September 2023. Applicant 
stated that in 2018, he had traveled throughout Europe. He set a personal goal to visit at 
least 25 countries in a single year. He reported that he had never been in a serious 
romantic relationship. He traveled to Thailand and the Philippines to make “time to do 
what men gotta’ do.” The investigator noted in the report “prostitution.” Applicant 
maintained that it was not prostitution because he did not pay the woman directly for sex, 
but instead bought their meals or drinks at a bar with the intention of having sex later. In 
his Answer, Applicant claimed he had a regular girlfriend in the Philippines, and the 
2 
 
 
 
     
   
         
  
    
   
  
 
 
   
 
     
       
    
         
   
     
     
  
     
  
 
 
     
   
investigator misconstrued his  words.  Applicant  and his girlfriend  had a break  in their  
relationship in 2019 .  He listed “no further  contact  –  no relationships.” He has been  
“completely single”  going on six years.  He also noted that he t raveled to T hailand  from 
2018 to 2025  for  two hair  transplants and for  other medical and c osmetic procedures.  
During the hearing he stated the costs in Thailand are about  one-tenth of the c osts  in the  
U.S. for the same procedures.  (Answer;  GE 6, 7, 8; AE D, L, M; Tr. 52-53, 55-58)  
Applicant testified during the hearing that when he traveled to the Philippines in 
2019, he met a lady and fell in love. When he told the U.S. Army investigators that , “a 
man’s gotta’ do what men gotta’ do,” he was actually expressing a hope of finding love, 
getting married, and raising a family. He testified, a “man has a need to enjoy and have 
a partner in his life.” Applicant denied he had visited Thailand for the purpose of meeting 
women. He only went to Thailand for medical and cosmetic reasons, not for pursing 
sexual relationships with women. (Tr. 53-54) 
Department Counsel pointed out  Applicant’s inconsistent statements.  In his  2024 
Answer,  Applicant  stated  that he has been completely single since 2019,  but his testimony  
indicated that  he started a relationship with  a woman in Philippines in 2019. Applicant’s  
response  was that  he h ad a girlfriend (#1) in the Philippines that lasted from 2018 to 2019,  
and girlfriend ( #2) in the Philippines lasted from  2019 to 2022.  It  was pointed out to 
Applicant that he stated specifically in  his Answer that he “Broke up wi th 2
nd  One –  in  
2019-and N ever met them again…last  they told [him]… both of them  GOT MARRIED and  
have Kids.”  (Punctuation and c apitalization in original .) Applicant  testified that he  
mistakenly mixed-up the dates in his Answer.  He also did n ot disclose his  past  foreign  
girlfriends  during  his September 2023 security screening interview “because  the 
relationship had ended…  that relationship did not exist  by  the time I went for  the interview.  
None of the relationships existed. I was single.” He also did not  mention it to the U.S.  
Army investigators because he did not want to unnecessarily  alarm them  about his  
previous foreign relationships.  (Answer;  Tr. 52-59)  
A
pplicant submitted a letter from his second girlfriend in the Philippines dated July 
9, 2025. The letter states that she is “a single mother and [she] was in a relationship with 
[Applicant] from 2019 to 2022.” She said Applicant had met her parents, he had helped 
support her with her monthly household expenses, and he had paid school fees for her 
young daughters. (AE K) During the hearing, Applicant was questioned if he had written 
the letter himself due to uncanny similarities of him capitalizing certain words throughout 
a sentence. At first, he denied drafting the letter, but then he admitted helping his former 
girlfriend draft the letter because she was unable to write it herself. Applicant also 
acknowledged that he did not mention that he provided financial support to a foreign 
citizen during his September 2023 interview because he believed the investigators were 
only asking about any money he paid to obtain sexual favors from foreign women. (GE 1, 
5, 6; Tr. 58-64) 
Financial Considerations   
Applicant attributes his financial problems to being unemployed from March 2019 
to December 2020, and from September 2021 to July 2022. He has also unsuccessfully 
3 
 
 
  
  
    
    
  
 
     
  
 
    
     
 
  
  
    
     
  
       
      
 
     
 
    
 
 
    
 
   
     
     
   
 
      
   
 
 
    
   
      
   
   
      
 
    
     
  
 
attempted to start his own business on two occasions . He relied heavily on credit cards 
during this time for living expenses , and he also continued to travel overseas using his 
credit cards. He had previously hired a debt resolution company to help him resolve his 
growing indebtedness, but he thought the company charged too much in fees , so he 
terminated his business with the company. He listed in his August 2023 security clearance 
application (SCA) that he worked with a consumer debt company and had all of his past-
due debts consolidated. He made monthly payments, and his delinquent accounts would 
soon be resolved. During his December 2023 background interview with an authorized 
DOD investigator, Applicant admitted he did not currently have a debt resolution plan in 
place, but he was working on hiring a company to help him with his delinquent debts 
totaling, at that time, approximately $42,523. Applicant also stated that for many years, 
he lived in a house with his parents and grandmother, and he was the main financial 
provider for his extended family. (GE 2, 4, 6, 7, 8, 12, 13, 14) 
SOR ¶ 4.a alleges Applicant filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy in August 2013. He 
stated that his father had credit card debt from paying living expenses, and Applicant took 
multiple balance transfers on his credit cards to pay off his father’s debt. Applicant 
eventually filed for bankruptcy and discharged approximately $40,000 of debt in 
November 2013. (Answer; GE 2, 4, 6, 7, 11) 
The debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 4.b through 4.n were admitted by Applicant and total 
approximately $49,450, which included unpaid credit cards and personal loans. These 
debts were included in his November 2024 Chapter 7 bankruptcy, as set forth below. (GE 
4, 17) 
In February 2024, Applicant entered into an agreement with another consumer 
debt consolidation company. His delinquent debt totaled approximately $54 ,130. The 
length of the program was 60 months, and he was scheduled to make monthly payments 
of about $7 20 until the expiration of the program in January 2029. There is no 
documentation in the record to show that Applicant has made any payments to this 
company. (AE B; GE 4) 
SOR ¶ 4.m alleges Applicant filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy on November 19, 2024. 
His nonpriority unsecured liabilities totaled approximately $73,300. The bankruptcy was 
discharged in about February 2025. (GE 17) 
In Applicant’s Answer he reported that his parents have recently moved out of the 
shared residence and reside in a place where their retirement and Social Security 
incomes are sufficient to pay for their new residence and monthly expenses. He expects 
his parents will no longer need much financial support from him. Since his debts were 
successfully discharged, his financial situation is positive. He stated his total monthly 
income was about $7,000, and his total monthly expenses were about $500. (AE D) 
Applicant submitted post-hearing photos of his volunteer and work life, 
certifications, recognitions, pay stubs, and a personal statement for my consideration. (AE 
X through AE GG) 
4 
 
 
                  Policies  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
    
  
    
      
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
   
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
   
 
  
  
 
   
    
   
   
 
 
 
 
Whe
n evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for access to classified 
information will be resolved in favor of national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. Likewise, I have not drawn inferences grounded on mere 
speculation or conjecture. 
Directive ¶ E3.1.14 requires the Government to present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified infor mation. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of Executive Order 10865 provides that decisions shall be “in terms of 
the national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
5 
 
 
                    
 
 
   
 
 
   
    
    
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
    
      
     
     
       
   
  
  
  
  
 
 
   
Analysis 
Guideline B:  For
 eign Influence  
AG ¶ 
6 explains the security concern about “foreign contacts and interests” 
stating: 
Foreign contacts and interests, including, but not limited to, business, 
financial, and property interests, are a national security concern if they result 
in divided allegiance. They may also be a national security concern if they 
create circumstances in which the individual may be manipulated or induced 
to help a foreign person, group, organization, or government in a way 
inconsistent with U.S. interests or otherwise made vulnerable to pressure 
or coercion by any foreign interest. Assessment of foreign contacts and 
interests should consider the country in which the foreign contact or interest 
is located, including, but not limited to, considerations such as whether it is 
known to target U.S. citizens to obtain classified or sensitive information or 
is associated with a risk of terrorism. 
AG ¶ 7 lists conditions that could raise a foreign influence security concern and 
may be disqualifying in this case: 
(a) contact, regardless of  me
 thod, with a foreign family  member, business  
or professional associate, friend, or other person who is a citizen of or  
resident in a foreign country if  that contact  creates a heightened risk of  
foreign exploitation,  inducement,  manipulation, pressure,  or coercion; and   
(b) connections to a foreign person, group, government, or country that  
cr
eate a potential conflict of interest between the individual’s obligation to  
protect classified or sensitive information or technology and the individual’s  
desire to help a foreign person, group,  or country by  providing that  
information or  technology.  
The ev
identiary issue in this case is whether the U.S. Army’s report of Applicant’s 
comment, “time to do what men gotta’ do,” standing alone, constitutes sufficient evidence 
of Applicant’s engagement in prostitution with foreign women on numerous occasions. 
Applicant has adamantly denied SOR ¶ 1.a. Furthermore, the SOR does not allege, and 
the evidence does not reflect , that Applicant has any current connections to persons or 
groups in the foreign country that would cause a heightened risk of foreign exploitation, 
inducement, manipulation, pressure or coercion or that would create a potential conflict 
of interest. Accordingly, I conclude that Applicant has refuted the allegation in SOR ¶ 1.a 
due to insufficient evidence, and none of the above disqualifying conditions are 
applicable. 
Guideline D: Sexual  Behavior  
The security concern for sexual behavior is set out in AG ¶ 12: 
6 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
     
    
     
  
 
 
    
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
Sexual behavior that involves a criminal offense; reflects a lack of judgment 
or discretion; or may subject the individual to undue influence of coercion, 
exploitation, or duress. These issues, together or individually, may raise 
questions about an individual’s judgment, reliability, trustworthiness, and 
ability to protect classified or sensitive information. Sexual behavior 
includes conduct occurring in person or via audio, visual, electronic, or 
written transmission. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns. I have 
considered all of the disqualifying conditions under AG ¶ 13, and the following are 
potentially applicable: 
(a) sexual behavior of  a cr
 iminal nature, whether or not  the individual has  
been prosecuted;  
(c) sexual behavior that causes an individual to be vulnerable to coercion,  
expl
oitation,  or duress; and   
(d) sexual  behavior of  a pu blic nature or that reflects lack  of  discretion or  
judgment.   
SOR
 ¶ 1.a was cross alleged under this Guideline. Since I concluded that Applicant 
has refuted the allegation in SOR ¶ 1.a due to insufficient evidence, the security concerns 
under this Guideline are refuted as well, and none of the above disqualifying conditions 
are applicable. 
Guideline E: Personal Conduct  
AG ¶ 15 expresses the security concern for personal conduct: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to 
provide truthful and candid answers during national security investigative or 
adjudicative processes. … 
AG ¶ 16 describes conditions that could raise a security concern and be 
disqualifying. The following is potentially applicable under the established facts in this 
case: 
(c) credible adverse information in several adjudicative issue areas that is  
not sufficient for an adverse determination under any other single guideline,  
but which, when considered as  a whole, supports a whole -person  
assessment of questionable judgment, untrustworthiness, unreliability, lack  
of candor,  unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations, or other  
7 
 
 
   
  
 
   
   
      
  
 
 
   
   
 
  
   
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
  
 
     
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
    
   
 
 
characteristics indicating that the person may not properly safeguard 
protected information. 
SOR ¶ 1.a was cross alleged under this Guideline. Since I concluded that Applicant 
has refuted the allegation in SOR ¶ 1.a due to insufficient evidence, the security concerns 
under this Guideline are refuted as well, and none of the above disqualifying conditions 
are applicable. 
Guideline F: Financial Considerations     
The security concerns relating to the guideline for financial considerations are set 
out in AG ¶ 18, which reads in pertinent part: 
Failure to live within one’s means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
The facts of this case establish the following potentially disqualifying conditions set 
forth in AG ¶ 19: 
(b) an unwillingness  to 
 satisfy debts regardless of the ability to do so;  
(c)  a history of not  me eting financial obligations;  and  
(e) consistent spending beyond one’s means or frivolous  or i rresponsible  
spending, which may  be indicated by excessive indebtedness, significant  
cash flow, a history  of late payments or of non- payment,  or other negative  
financial indicators.  
The rec
ord evidence supports the potential disqualifying conditions set forth above. 
The burden, therefore, shifts to Applicant to mitigate security concerns under Guideline 
F. 
The guideline includes the following conditions in AG ¶ 20 that can potentially 
mitigate security concerns arising from Applicant’s financial history: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
under
 such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good judgment;     
8 
 
 
 
 
       
   
 
  
   
      
  
    
   
 
      
  
  
       
  
    
 
  
 
   
  
   
    
 
   
   
   
   
    
 
    
 
    
 
  
 
 
 
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial  probl
 em were largely beyond  
the person’s control  (e.g., loss of employment, a business  downturn,  
unexpected medical emergency, or a death, divorce or separation, clear  
victimization by  predatory  lending practices, or identity theft), and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;  and  
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- fai th effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.    
AG ¶
 20(a), (b), and (d) are not established. Applicant has experienced financial 
difficulties for over two decades. He attributed his financial problems to unemployment 
and underemployment during COVID -19, failed business ventures, taking financial 
responsibility for his parents and grandmother, and charging extensive foreign travel to 
credit cards, some of which, is a situation largely beyond his control, establishing the first 
prong of AG ¶ 20(b). For full mitigation credit, he must prove that he acted responsibly 
under the circumstances . While the pandemic and some other explanations certainly 
constitute circumstances beyond his control, Applicant must establish that he has acted 
reasonably, responsibly, and in good faith in handling his delinquent accounts. 
I find the Applicant did not act responsibly and in good faith. He began 
accumulating debt in an irresponsible manner even before the pandemic. In 2019, he took 
out a $14,000 loan. He used the money to continue traveling internationally, taking eight 
trips in 2019 to places including China and Istanbul, six trips in 2020, and after the COVID 
travel restrictions were lifted, another nine trips between October 2021 and July 2023. His 
conduct demonstrates consistent spending beyond his means and frivolous and 
irresponsible spending, causing his extensive indebtedness . It is clear that Applicant’s 
overspending and poor financial decisions have a role in his financial troubles. 
Applicant also failed to demonstrate good- faith efforts to resolve his mounting 
indebtedness. Prior to August 2023, he did hire a consumer consolidation debt company, 
but then terminated their business because he thought the company’s fees were too high. 
Applicant entered into another agreement with a different consumer debt consolidation 
company in February 2024. His delinquent debt totaled approximately $54,130. The 
length of the program was 60 months, and he was scheduled to make monthly payments 
of about $720 until the expiration of the program in January 2029. There is no evidence 
in the record that Applicant made any payments to either debt resolution company . He 
provided information in the record that his total monthly income was about $7,000, and 
his total monthly expenses were about $500. The record evidence shows that his 
indebtedness continued to grow until he filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy in November 2024, 
with liabilities totaling approximately $73,300 that were discharged earlier this year. 
Given Applicant’s lengthy history of financial issues, I find that more time is 
required for him to demonstrate that he is responsible, his finances are under control, and 
that his monetary problems are unlikely to recur. Applicant failed to mitigate the financial 
considerations security concerns. 
9 
 
 
 
  
 
    
   
 
      
   
  
 
 
      
  
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
   
  
  
 
  
   
  
 
  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s  age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration of 
the guidelines and the whole- person concept. I considered the potentially disqualifying 
and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances surrounding this case. 
I have incorporated my comments under Guidelines B, D, E, and F and the AG ¶ 2(d) 
factors in this whole-person analysis. 
The Federal government must be able to repose a high degree of trust and 
confidence in persons granted access to classified information. In deciding whether to 
grant or continue access to classified information, the Federal government can take into 
account facts and circumstances of an applicant's personal life that shed light on the 
person's judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness. 
The record contains substantial evidence of Applicant’s inconsistent statement s, 
which is troubling and undercuts his credibility. The nature of the inconsistent statements 
are not the result of a faulty memory, but a purposeful effort to characterize his past 
relationships with foreign women as being in good faith. Although there was insufficient 
evidence in the record to support a finding that he paid women to engage in prostitution, 
I have significant reservations about Applicant’s current security wort hiness due to his 
credibility, reliability, and trustworthiness. 
Considering the evidence as a whole, I find Applicant has not carried his burden 
of showing that it is clearly consistent with the interests of national security of the United 
States to grant him eligibility for access to classified information. 
10 
 
 
            Formal Findings  
 
      
    
 
   
 
    
 
            
 
    
 
   
 
    
 
   
 
   
 
                
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
             
            
                                                                
Form
al findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  G uideline B:  FOR  APPLICANT  
Subparagraph 1.a:  For  Applicant  
FOR  APPLICANT   P aragraph 2,  Guideline D:  
S
ubparagraph 2.a:  
Paragraph 3, Guideline E:  
For  Applicant  
FOR  APPLICANT  
Subparagraph 3.a:  For  Applicant  
Paragraph 4, Guideline F:  AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  4.a  through 4.o:  Against  Applicant  
 Conclusion  
In l
ight of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, I conclude 
that it is not clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant Applicant’s 
national security eligibility. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Pamela C. Benson 
Administrative Judge 
11 