 
 
 
                                                              
 
 
                                                                                                                    
          
           
             
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
_________
_____ 
______________ 
DEPARTM
ENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
 
In the matter of:  )  
 )  
            )   ISCR  Case No. 24-01855  
  )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance  )  
 
 
Appearances  
For Gov
ernment: 
Andrew Henderson, Esquire, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: 
Emily Goeke, Esquire 
Armstrong Teasdale LLP 
07/23/2025 
Decision 
ROSS, Wilford H., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant mitigated the security concerns under Guidelines H (Drug Involvement 
and Substance Misuse) and E (Personal Conduct). Eligibility for access to classified 
information is granted. 
1 
 
 
 
 
   
    
   
  
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
     
    
    
  
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
Statement  of the Case  
On January 14, 2025, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guidelines H and E. The 
action was taken under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information 
within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 5220.6, Defense 
Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended 
(Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) implemented by the DOD on June 8, 
2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR in writing (Answer)  on March 18, 2025 , and  
requested a hearing before an administrative judge. Department Counsel was  prepared  
to proceed on April 15, 2025. The case was assigned to me on April 22, 2025. The 
Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a Notice of Hearing on April 28,  
2025. I convened the hearing as scheduled on July 2, 2025. The Government  submitted  
Government Exhibits  1 through 5, which were admitted without  objection. Applicant  
testified on  her  own behalf,  and submitted Applicant Exhibits  1 through 9 and  A through  
C. Her  exhibits were also admitted without  objection. DOHA received the transcript  of the  
hearing (Tr.) on July 14,  2025.   
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 31 years old and married. She has a master’s degree. She has been 
employed by a defense contractor since 2015 . She became a manager of proposals in 
December 2023, and seeks to retain national security eligibility and a security clearance 
in connection with her employment. (Government Exhibit 1 at Sections 12, 13A, and 17; 
Tr. 17-18.) 
Paragraph 1 (Guideline H, Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse)  
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance 
because she has used illegal drugs. She admitted both allegations under this paragraph 
with explanations. 
1.a.  Applicant admitted that she used marijuana  in various forms  at least seven  
times between 2011 and 2023. Between 2011 and 2016 she smoked or vaped marijuana  
three times.  She did not  like the burning sensation.  Twice in 2017 and twice in 2023 she  
used THC edibles . She credibly stated that she has  no future intentions of using  
marijuana.  She realizes  the negative impact continued marijuana use can have on her  
life  and career. (Tr.  18-24.)  
2 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
    
  
  
    
 
   
    
 
        
   
  
 
      
    
 
 
  
    
    
 
   
   
   
 
 
   
    
  
    
 
1.b. Applicant admitted that she used THC edibles four  times,  twice in 2017 and  
twice in 2023, while holding a sensitive position, i.e., one in  which she held a security  
clearance. She has stated that she will  not use  marijuana in any form in the future.  
(Government Exhibit 4;  Tr.  24-25.)  
Applicant provided a written statement of intent not to use marijuana or any other 
illegal drugs in the future. She has taken a marijuana awareness course and had several 
negative drug tests since issuance of the SOR. She avoids social situations where 
marijuana is used. Her friends and her husband know that she cannot be around illegal 
drugs. As stated, she evinces a credible intent not to use marijuana in the future. 
(Applicant Exhibits 1, 2, 3, 9, B, and C; Tr. 25-28.) 
Department Counsel indicated some concern that Applicant’s testimony was at 
odds with her previous written statements about the extent of her marijuana use. I have 
examined the statements and, while they are different, the difference is insufficient to 
show any attempt at falsehood on Applicant’s part. They are set forth below: 
Applicant has filled out Electronic Questionnaires for Investigations Processing (e-
QIPs), in 2016 and 2024. Question 23 of the e-QIP asks about drug use. 
In the October 2016 e-QIP she stated in answer to Question 23, “I rarely have used 
drugs with THC. If I could estimate it would be around five times in my lifetime.” 
(Government Exhibit 2.) 
In the January 2024 e-QIP she stated in answer to Question 23 that her use in the 
period between 2016 and 2023 was , “Infrequent use: If anything once or twice a year.” 
(Government Exhibit 1.) 
Finally, during an interview with a government investigator and later in DOHA 
interrogatories Applicant stated that she may have used marijuana “1 to 2 times per year” 
between 2011 and 2023. (Government Exhibit 3.) 
Applicant adamantly stated that these figures were incorrect and that she only 
used marijuana in any form seven times. Viewing the evidence as a whole, the difference 
is de minimis. (Tr. 28-30.) 
Paragraph 2 (Guideline E,  Personal Conduct)  
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance 
because she has engaged in conduct that shows poor judgment, untrustworthiness, or 
unreliability as set forth in Paragraph 1, above. Applicant admitted the single allegation 
under this guideline with explanations. The facts set forth above apply to this allegation 
as well. 
3 
 
 
 
 
   
 
     
  
 
 
    
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
     
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
Mitigation  
Applicant is viewed as an outstanding manager by her supervisors. Her 
performance evaluations show a driven and talented person who has advanced rapidly 
to a management position while in her early 3 0s. She is described as someone who 
exhibits “strong leadership.” She has received work awards. (Applicant Exhibits 4 and 5; 
Tr. 30-31.) 
Applicant submitted three character reference letters from co-workers, including a 
former manager. All of the letter writers knew of the allegations in the SOR, particularly 
using marijuana while holding a security clearance. She is described as “ethical,” 
“trustworthy,” and a person of “integrity.” They recommend her for a position of trust. 
(Applicant Exhibits 6, 7, and 8; Tr. 31.) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s national security eligibility for a security clearance, 
the administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines (AG) list 
potentially disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in 
evaluating an applicant’s national security eligibility. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. The entire 
process is a conscientious scrutiny of applicable guidelines in the context of a number of 
variables known as the whole- person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires, “Any doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. I have not drawn inferences based on mere speculation or 
conjecture. 
Directive ¶ E3.1.14, requires the Government to present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, “The applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
4 
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
  
   
    
 
  
  
  
  
    
    
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel, and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable clearance decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants national 
security eligibility. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk the 
applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or safeguard classifi ed 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as 
to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified or sensitive information. 
Finally, as emphasized in Section 7 of Executive Order 10865, “Any determination under 
this order adverse to an applicant shall be a determination in terms of the national interest 
and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” 
See also Executive Order 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information.) 
Analysis  
Paragraph 1 (Guideline H, Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse)  
The security concern relating to Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse is set 
forth in AG ¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any “controlled substance” as 
defined in 21 U.S.C. §802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted 
in this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
5 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
    
    
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
   
 
  
  
 
   
I have examined the disqualifying conditions under AG ¶ 25 and especially 
considered the following: 
(a) any substance misuse (see above definition);  
  
(c )  illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation,  
pr
ocessing, manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution, or possession of  
drug paraphernalia; and  
(f) any illegal  dr ug use while granted access to classified information or  
holding a sensitive position.   
Appl
icant possessed and used marijuana on a very infrequent basis from 2011 to 
2023. She used marijuana in the form of edibles four times while holding a sensitive 
position. All of the stated disqualifying conditions have application to this case. 
The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 26 have also been considered: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or  happened  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur  or does not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability,  trustworthiness,  or good judgment;  and  
(b) the individual acknowledges  hi s or her drug involvement and substance  
misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and  
has established a pattern of  abstinence, including, but not limited to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-us ing associates and contacts;  
(2)  changing or  av oiding the e nvironment  where drugs  were used;  
and  
(3) providing a signed statement  of  intent to abstain from  all drug  
involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future  
involvement  or misuse is grounds for revocation of  national security  
eligibility.  
In 
my analysis, I have taken administrative notice of the Security Executive Agent 
(SecEA) “Clarifying Guidance Concerning Marijuana for Individuals Eligible to Access 
Classified Information or Eligible to Hold a Sensitive Position,” dated December 21, 2021. 
(Guidance.) In her Guidance, the SecEA noted the increased number of states that have 
legalized or decriminalized the use of marijuana and issued the Guidance to “provide 
clarifying guidance.” She reaffirmed SecEA’s 2014 memorandum regarding the 
importance of compliance with Federal law on the illegality of the use of marijuana by 
6 
 
 
 
  
 
    
 
    
 
      
    
  
      
 
   
    
     
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
     
  
 
  
  
  
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
holders of security clearances. She provided further clarification of Federal marijuana 
policy, writing that “prior recreational marijuana use by an individual may be relevant to 
adjudications but [is] not determinative.” She noted that the adjudicative guidelines 
provided various opportunities for a clearance applicant to mitigate security concerns 
raised by his or her past use of marijuana. 
Applicant’s marijuana use is two years in her past and has not been repeated. She 
explained at length that she thoroughly understands the consequences of any future drug 
use or exposure, and has taken several steps to avoid it. Se credibly testified and 
submitted a written declaration of her intent not to misuse drugs in the future. She also 
acknowledged that such misuse would be grounds for revocation of national security 
eligibility. Her husband and friends know that marijuana is no longer a part of her life. 
Viewing her marijuana use in the context of the whole person, Applicant has mitigated the 
security significance of her past drug involvement. Security concerns under Guideline H 
are mitigated. Paragraph 1 is found for Applicant. 
Paragraph 2 (Guideline E,  Personal Conduct)  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Personal Conduct is set out in 
AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to 
cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 16. One is potentially applicable in this case: 
(e) personal conduct,  or
  concealment of information about  one’s conduct,  
that creates  a vulnerability to exploitation,  manipulation,  or duress by a  
foreign intelligence entity  or other individual  or group. Such  conduct  
includes:  
(1) engaging in activities which, if known, could affect the person’s  
per
sonal, professional, or community standing.  
7 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
     
  
     
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
        
    
     
 
 
  
   
  
The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 17 are applicable to Applicant’s 
conduct: 
(c) the offense is so minor, or so much time has passed, or the behavior is  
s
o infrequent, or it happened under such unique circumstances that it is  
unlikely to recur  and  does not cast doubt  on the individual's reliability,  
trustworthiness, or  good judgment; and  
(d) the individual has acknowledged the behavior and obtained counseling  
t
o change the behavior or taken other positive steps to alleviate the  
stressors,  circumstances, or factors that  contributed to untrustworthy,  
unreliable, or  other inappropriate behavior, and such behavior is  unlikely to  
recur.  
As
 stated under Paragraph 1, above, Applicant has expressed remorse for her 
infrequent drug abuse. There is compelling evidence that it shall not be repeated. She 
has mitigated the single allegation under this guideline. Paragraph 2 is found for 
Applicant. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for national security eligibility by considering the totality of the 
applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should 
consider the nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant national security 
eligibility for a security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon 
careful consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
pertinent facts and circumstances surrounding this case. Applicant has fully mitigated the 
security concerns of her prior drug use and the associated personal conduct. As stated 
elsewhere in this decision, and supported by the evidence, Applicant is a talented and 
8 
 
 
 
    
   
   
 
 
 
      
  
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
     
 
  
 
    
 
   
                                                  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
successful young engineer and manager who has learned from her mistakes and has 
moved forward with her life without drugs. Her conduct has earned her the privilege of 
being granted national security eligibility. Paragraphs 1 and 2 are found for Applicant. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by ¶ E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  G
 uideline H:   
Subparagraphs 1.a  and  1.b:  
Paragraph 2,  Guideline E:   
S
ubparagraph 2.a:   
FOR  APPLICANT  
For  Applicant  
FOR  APPLICANT  
For Applicant  
C
onclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to grant or continue Applicant’s national security 
eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
WILFORD H. ROSS 
Administrative Judge 
9 