 
 
 
                                                              
 
 
                                                                                                                    
          
           
             
 
 
 
 
  
  
                
   
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
      
  
______________ 
______________ 
DEP
ARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-02180 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: 
Andrew Henderson, Esquire, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: 
Grant Couch, Esquire 
The Edmunds Law Firm 
07/15/2025 
Decision 
ROSS, Wilford H., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant mitigate d the security concerns under Guideline F (Financial 
Considerations). Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Statement  of the Case  
On January 8, 2025 , the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline F . The action 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
      
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
   
   
      
   
 
 
    
 
     
       
     
 
   
   
     
      
  
     
was taken under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial 
Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended 
(Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) implemented by the DOD on June 8, 
2017. 
Applicant responded to the SOR  in writing (Answer)  on March  11, 2025, including  
attachments, and requested a hearing before an administrative judge. Department  
Counsel was prepared to proceed on  April 15, 2025. The case was assigned to m e on 
April 22, 2025. The Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a Notice of  
Hearing on April 28, 2025.  I convened the hearing as scheduled on June 11, 2025. The 
Government offered Government Exhibits  1 through  9, which were admitted without  
objection. Applicant testified on his  own behalf  and submitted Applicant  Exhibits A  through  
Q. Applicant’s exhibits were admitted without  objection.  He asked that the record remain  
open for the receipt  of  additional documentation.  He timely submitted Applicant Exhibits  
R through W, which were also admitted without objection.  DOHA received the transcript  
of the hearing (Tr.) on  June 27,  2025.  
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 48 years old, married for the second time, and has five children. He 
has a bachelor’s degree. He is employed by a defense contractor as a project manager. 
He served on active duty with the Marine Corps from 1996 to 2006 and received an 
Honorable Discharge. (Government Exhibit 1 at Sections 12, 13A, 15, and 17; Applicant 
Exhibits J and W; Tr. 38-41.)  
Paragraph 1  (Guideline F, Financial  Considerations)  
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance 
because he is financially overextended and therefore potentially unreliable, 
untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds. Applicant 
admitted allegations 1.a, 1.b, 1.d, 1 .e, 1.f, 1.g, 1.h, 1.i, 1.j, and 1.l under this guideline 
with clarifications. He denied allegations 1.c and 1.k with explanations. 
Based on the available documentary evidence Applicant is alleged to owe 
approximately $31,676 in past-due or charged-off debts. The Government provided credit 
reports of Applicant dated May 22, 2012; July 16, 202 1; September 19, 2024; and June 
6, 2025, supporting the existence of the debts. (Government Exhibits 4, 5, 6, and 9.) The 
debts are admitted by Applicant in his responses in Section 26 of his Electronic 
Questionnaire for Investigations Processing, dated June 16, 2021. (Government Exhibit 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
  
     
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.) The existence of the debts is supported by admissions of Applicant in responses to 
interrogatories dated August 7, 2023. (Government Exhibit 2.) The existence of the debts 
is also supported by his admissions to an authorized investigator from the Office of 
Personnel Management during an interview on July 22, 2021. (Government Exhibit 3.) 
Applicant  states that  the majority of his  past-due indebtedness occurred after  he 
lost his job in 201 5. He was  unemployed or  under-employed until  he was hired by  his  
current company  in 2017. His in-laws left  the family  home at approximately the same time.  
They had been providing additional financial support for Applicant and his family.  He 
admitted that he was  not financially educated at that  time.  (Tr. 32-33, 42-44, 49-50, 56-
60.)  
Starting in 2021 Applicant  began working with a credit  repair organization. They  
provided  budgeting training and helped him negotiate with his creditors.  He also educated  
himself on financial stability and budgeting.  He developed a payment plan that  is based  
on a quarterly cycle.  He has been successfully working the plan for several years and  
evinces  a credible intent to continue the plan into the future.  (Government Exhibit  2 at 25-
26;  Applicant Exhibit A; Tr. 26, 50-51, 60-61.)  
The current status of the debts alleged in the SOR is as follows: 
1.a.  Applicant  admitted that  he owed  a  creditor $8,560 for a past -due debt. No  
payments have  been made on this debt. He stated that it is part of his debt repayment  
plan,  and he is  due to begin  making payments on it  starting  in the  second quarter of 2026  
at the rate of $250 a month. This  debt is not resolved. (Applicant  Exhibit A;  Tr. 25-26, 47.)  
1.b.  Applicant admitted that  he owed  a  creditor $4,015 for a past -due debt. No  
payments have  been made on this debt. He stated that it is part of his debt repayment  
plan,  and he is due to begin making payments on it  starting in the fourth  quarter of 2025  
at the rate of $200 a month. This debt is not resolved. (Applicant  Exhibit A; Tr. 26, 56.)  
1.c. Applicant  denied that  he owed a  creditor $3,818  for  a past-due debt.  This debt  
was paid in 2023, as shown by  documentation. This debt has been resolved.  (Applicant  
Exhibits  A  and B; Tr. 26-27, 49.)  
1.d.  Applicant admitted that  he owed a creditor $2,389 for a past -due debt. No  
payments have  been made on this debt. He stated that it is part of his debt repayment  
plan,  and he is  due to  begin  making payments on it  starting  in the  third  quarter of  2025  at 
the rate of $150 a month. This  debt is not resolved. (Applicant Exhibit A; Tr. 27.)  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.e. Applicant admitted that  he owed a creditor $2,257  for a past -due debt. No  
payments have  been made on this debt. He stated that it is part of his debt repayment  
plan,  and he is due to begin making payments on it  starting in the first  quarter of  2026 at  
the rate of $150 a month. This  debt is not resolved. (Applicant Exhibit A; Tr. 27-28.)  
1.f. Applicant admitted that  he owed this creditor $2,054 for a past -due debt. He  
stated that it is part of his debt repayment  plan and that  he has been  making timely  
monthly  payments on it  since  August 2024 .  He has two payments left  to satisfy  his  
agreement  with the creditor .  He submitted documentation supporting his statements.   
This debt is being resolved.  (Applicant Exhibits  A, C, D, and P; Tr. 28.)  
1.g. Applicant admitted that he owed this creditor $ 1,996  for a past-due debt.  No  
payments have  been made on this debt. He stated that it is part of his debt repayment  
plan,  and he is  due to  begin  making payments on it  starting  in the  third  quarter of  2025  at 
the rate of $150 a month. This  debt is not resolved. (Applicant Exhibit A; Tr.  28-29, 56.)  
1.h. Applicant  admitted that he owed this creditor $923  for a past -due debt.  He  
recently  made a payment  arrangement with the creditor and made the first  payment in  
fulfillment of the agreement. This debt is  being  resolved.  (Applicant Exhibits  A  and Q; Tr.  
29.)  
1.i. Applicant denied that he owed a creditor  $763 for a past-due debt.  The creditor  
agreed that there were errors in reporting the debt  and it was  deleted from  his credit  
report. This debt has  been resolved through dispute.  (Applicant Exhibits A,  S, and V; Tr.  
29-30, 55-56.)  
1.j. Applicant  admitted that  he owed this creditor $ 2,358  for a past-due debt.  No  
payments  have been made on this debt. He stated that it is part of his debt repayment  
plan,  and he is due to begin making payments on it starting in the fourth  quarter of 2025  
at the rate of $150 a month.  However,  Government Exhibit 5, the  July 16, 2021 credit  
report at page 8 states  with regard to this account,  “Possible Balance Due.”  This debt  
does not appear on the most recent credit report in the record, dated June 6, 2025. Based  
on the state of the record, this debt is not  proven.  (Government Exhibits  5 and 9;  Applicant  
Exhibit A; Tr. 30-31, 49-50.)  
1.k.  Applicant  denied  that he owed this  creditor  $1,843  for  a past-due debt.  He 
stated that he had no knowledge of   this debt.  The credit reporting agency  did an  
investigation  after he filed a dispute and deleted the account. This debt has been resolved  
through dispute.  (Government Exhibit 2 at  16-17; Tr. 31-32,  55-56.)  
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
      
    
 
     
  
 
 
 
      
   
 
 
 
  
     
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
     
1.l.  Applicant  admitted that he owed this  creditor  $700 for a past -due debt.  
However,  after being contacted by Applicant the credit  grantor  conducted an audit of the  
account and determined that he did not have a delinquent debt with them.  This is  
confirmed by a letter from the credit  grantor dated June 5 , 2025.  This  debt has been  
resolved through dispute.  (Applicant Exhibit R; Tr. 32, 55-56.)  
Mitigation  
Applicant is a very successful and respected employee. This is supported by letters 
from his supervisors, and other fellow employees . He has received awards and 
recognition for his work performance. (Applicant Exhibits E, F, G, L, and M; Tr. 36-38.) 
Financially, Applicant is stable. He is able to pay his debts with h is income. He 
attended credit counseling to assist him self in maintaining financial stability. He has a 
budget and, as discussed above, a plan that he is following religiously to repay all his 
past-due indebtedness within an approximately five- year period. He submitted 
documentation with his interrogatory responses showing that he had paid a substantial 
debt not alleged in the SOR. (Government Exhibit 2 at 2-7, 25-26; Applicant Exhibits T 
and U; Tr. 34-38, 65-68.) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s national security eligibility for a security clearance, 
the administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines (AG) list 
potentially disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in 
evaluating an applicant’s national security eligibility. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. The entire 
process is a conscientious scrutiny of applicable guidelines in the context of a number of 
variables known as the whole- person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires, “Any doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
  
  
   
    
 
  
  
  
  
    
    
 
 
 
 
 
   
        
 
  
   
 
 
   
  
  
 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. I have not drawn inferences based on mere speculation or 
conjecture. 
Directive ¶ E3.1.14, requires the Government to present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, “The applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel, and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable clearance decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants national 
security eligibility. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk the 
applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or safeguard classifi ed 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as 
to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified or sensitive information. 
Finally, as emphasized in Section 7 of Executive Order 10865, “Any determination under 
this order adverse to an applicant shall be a determination in terms of the national interest 
and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” 
See also Executive Order 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information.) 
Analysis  
Paragraph 1  (Guideline F, Financial Considerations)  
The security concerns relating to the guideline for financial considerations are set 
out in AG ¶ 18, which reads in pertinent part: 
Failure to live within one’s means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
     
 
    
    
 
     
   
 
  
 
 
 
    
   
  
   
    
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to  
engage in illegal  or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds.  
AG ¶ 19 describes two conditions that could raise security concerns and may be 
disqualifying in this case: 
(a) inability to satisfy  debt s;  and  
(c) a history of not  mee ting financial  obligations.  
Appli
cant was alleged to have twelve delinquent debts approximately $31,676 that 
he had not paid. AG ¶ ¶ 19(a) and (c) apply. The burden thereby shifts to Applicant to 
mitigate the adverse inference of his delinquent debts. 
The guideline includes four conditions in AG ¶ 20 that could mitigate the security 
concerns arising from Applicant’s alleged financial difficulties: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
under
 such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good judgment;   
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial  probl em were largely beyond  
the person’s control  (e.g., loss of employment, a business  downturn,  
unexpected medical emergency, or a death, divorce or separation, clear  
victimization by  predatory  lending practices, or identity theft), and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
(c) the individual  has r eceived or is receiving financial  counseling for the  
problem from  a legitimate and credible source, such as a non- profit credit  
counseling service,  and there are clear indications that the problem is being  
resolved or is under control;  and  
(d) the individual initiated and  is  adhering to a good- faith effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.  
Appli
cant had financial issues for several years. They were the result of a job loss, 
his in-laws moving and depriving him of additional funds, and admitted poor budgeting 
and overspending on his part. Starting in 2021 Applicant began working with a credit 
repair service. With their help he received budget training, established a budget, came up 
with a reasonable plan, and began executing that plan. Evidence has been submitted 
showing that one debt in the SOR has been paid in full. Two other debts are curr ently 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
  
     
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
    
 
   
  
 
      
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
being paid. One debt was unproven. Three debts were removed from his credit report 
after he filed a dispute. He has yet to begin resolving five debts, but his substantial and 
proven conduct shows that he will continue to resolve his indebtedness in accordance 
with his plan. AG ¶¶ 20(a), (b), (c), and (d) apply to those debts. 
In support of these findings, I cite the Appeal Board’s decision in ISCR Case No. 
07-06482 at 3 (App. Bd. May 21, 2008) for the proposition that the adjudicative guidelines 
do not require that an applicant be debt -free. The Board’s guidance for adjudications in 
cases such as this is the following: 
. . . an applicant is not required, as a matter of law, to establish that 
he has paid off each and every debt listed in the SOR. All that is required is 
that an applicant demonstrate that he has established a plan to resolve his 
financial problems and taken significant actions to implement that plan. The 
Judge can reasonably consider the entirety of an applicant’s financial 
situation and his actions in evaluating the extent to which that applicant’s 
plan for the reduction of his outstanding indebtedness is credible and 
realistic. There is no requirement that a plan provide for payments on all 
outstanding debts simultaneously. Rather, a reasonable plan (and 
concomitant conduct) may provide for the payments of such debts one at a 
time. (Internal citations and quotation marks omitted.) 
Based on all of the available evidence, Applicant has mitigated the security 
concerns of this guideline. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for national security eligibility by considering the totality of the 
applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should 
consider the nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
    
     
 
 
  
     
   
    
     
  
 
 
 
      
  
 
    
 
    
 
   
 
    
 
   
                                                  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant national security 
eligibility for a security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon 
careful consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
pertinent facts and circumstances surrounding this case. Applicant has fully mitigated the 
security concerns of his financial conduct. As stated elsewhere in this decision, and 
supported by the evidence, Applicant is a talented and successful person who works hard 
at his job. He has resolved, or is resolving, his financial situation. Such financial difficulties 
will not occur in the future. His conduct has earned him the privilege of being granted 
national security eligibility. Paragraph 1 is found for Applicant. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by ¶ E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  G
 uideline F:   FOR APPL
ICANT 
Subparagraphs 1.a  through  1.l:  For Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to grant or continue Applicant’s national security 
eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
WILFORD H. ROSS 
Administrative Judge 
9 