 
              
                                                                                                                    
          
           
             
 
 
 
    
  
               
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
   
    
 
   
    
  
     
   
 
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEP
ARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00998 
) 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: 
John Renehan, Esquire, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: 
Pro se 
08/15/2025 
Decision 
GLENDON, John Bayard, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant has mitigated the security concerns raised under the financial 
considerations guideline. National security eligibility for access to classified information is 
granted. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a Questionnaire for National Security Positions on May 11, 
2023 (Questionnaire). On November 5, 202 3, the Defense Counterintelligence and 
Security Agency (DCSA) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing 
security concerns under Adjudicative Guideline (AG) F. The action was taken under 
Executive Order 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information Within Industry (February 
20, 1960), as amended; Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 5220.6, Defense 
Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended 
(Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines effective within DoD after June 8, 2017. 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
 
   
   
    
  
    
  
   
   
 
       
       
   
  
    
 
         
 
 
 
    
     
    
    
    
   
 
 
 
Applicant responded to the SOR allegations on December 9, 2024 (Answer) and 
attached a letter to the Answer, which I have marked as Answer Attachment I. She 
requested a hearing before an administrative judge from the Defense Office of Hearings 
and Appeals (DOHA). Department Counsel was prepared to proceed on March 14, 2025. 
The case was assigned to me on April 11, 2025. DOHA sent Applicant a Notice of Hearing 
on April 16, 2025, scheduling the case to be heard via Microsoft Teams video 
teleconference on May 7, 2025. 
I convened the hearing as scheduled. Department Counsel proffered four 
documents marked as Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 4. Applicant introduced two 
exhibits, marked as Applicant Exhibit (AE) A and B . All exhibits were admitted without 
objection. I kept the record open until May 21, 2025, to give Applicant the opportunity to 
supplement the record. She timely submitted one additional exhibit, marked as AE C. The 
record closed on May 21, 2025. DOHA received the transcript of the hearing (Tr.) on May 
14, 2025. (Tr. at 39, 44.) 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 54 years old, divorced, and has no children. She received a high 
school diploma in 1990. She has been employed by a DoD contractor as a specialist since 
July 2022. She had worked in the same capacity for the prior DoD contractor at that 
location since 2016. Applicant was granted a Secret security clearance in 2007 as an 
employee of a third DoD contractor, but that clearance lapsed at one point due to a 
change in her employment. Her current employer required that she reapply for a 
clearance. (Tr. at 13-18, 43; GE 1 at 5, 10, 11-12, 14-15, 18-19, 28-29.) 
Paragraph 1, Guideline  F  (Financial  Considerations)    
The Government alleged in the SOR that Applicant is ineligible for a security 
clearance due to her failure to timely file federal income tax returns and to being indebted 
to the U.S. Government for past taxes. In the Answer, Applicant admitted her failure to 
file income tax re turns as alleged but denied that she owed the amount of back taxes 
alleged in the SOR. I find the following facts as set forth in the pleadings, developed at 
the hearing, and detailed in the documentary record. 
SOR ¶ 1.a.  Failure to  Timely File Federal  Tax Returns –  Tax Years 2020-2022.  
Applicant failed to timely file  her tax returns  for  tax years (TY)  2020-2022  due to Covid  
pandemic  (the Pandemic)  closures in her rural community  where everything shut  down  
for a long time, including the office of her tax return advisor (the  Tax  Advisor).  Applicant  
filed  the returns  for TY 2020,  TY 2021 and 2022,  along with her  TY  2023 return,  on April 
22,  2024, with the assistance of  the Tax  Advisor, who she had used  for years prior to the  
Pandemic.  For technical reasons  unrelated to Applicant’s return,  the IRS did not accept  
her TY 2020 tax return as filed  in April 2024 until  September 20,  2024.  (Tr.  at 23, 29-34; 
GE  3  at 8, 15,  17,  19, 31; Answer Attachment I at 2.)  
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
    
      
   
   
 
    
    
     
   
  
       
   
         
      
        
 
  
      
    
      
      
   
    
      
   
    
 
     
 
    
      
 
        
SOR ¶ 1.b.  Indebted to the Federal Government for Delinquent Taxes  - Tax 
Years  2013, 2021, and 2022  ($10,007).  Applicant worked with  the Tax  Advisor  in 2024 
to catch up on her delinquent returns.  Applicant l earned  that she still had an outstanding  
federal  tax  debt for TY 2013 of  $1,544. Applicant  was due to receive a refund of $ 2,698  
for TY 2020.  According to her tax returns, she owed taxes  for TYs  2021 and 2022 in the  
amounts of $3,740  and $1,698, respectively, plus interest  and penalties.  She was due a  
refund of  $1,261  for TY  2023.  The IRS adjusted the balances due for TY 2021 and TY  
2022 to $5,965 and $ 2,643, to include interest and penalties.  (Tr. at  31-34; GE 2 at  9; GE  
3 at  8,13, 17,  23,  59-66; GE  4 at 23;  AE A at 2; AE B  at 1-2.)  
Applicant’s refund for TY 2020 was applied to pay the taxes due in TY 2013, and 
she received a refund check in the amount of $621 for the balance of her overpayment. 
In 2023, she increased her federal withholding, which explains her excess tax withholding 
in that year . The IRS applied the amount of her overpayment to pay down her tax 
obligations for TY 2021 and 2022. In 2024, Applicant received a substantial raise, and 
she increased her withholding again, producing an overpayment of almost $2,300. T he 
IRS applied t hat amount to further reduce her tax obligations for TY 2021 and 2022, 
which, after various adjustments , including interest , penalties, and credits for the 
overpayments, totaled a revised tax debt of $5,539. Applicant expects a tax refund of 
more than $3,500 for TY 2025 because she increased her weekly withholding by another 
$50. When she files her TY 2025 tax return in 2026, the IRS will apply those funds to 
reduce her overall tax debt to less than $2,000. In February 2025, Applicant entered into 
a payment plan with the IRS to pay $120 per month on the 10th of every month until the 
tax debt is paid. After the hearing, she submitted AE C evidencing that she made her first 
payment under the payment plan on May 13, 2025. She expects to have the tax debt fully 
paid in 2026. (Tr. at 37-38; GE 3 at 8; GE 4 at 2-4.; AE A at 1; AE B at 1-5.) 
Mitigation  
Applicant’s rural community was hit hard by the Pandemic shutdown. “Everything 
shutdown,” including the office of her Tax Advisor. Her town suffered and so did she. At 
the same time, Applicant’s long- term marriage ended in divorce , and her father died. 
Living alone with several pets for her only company was difficult. She had little contact 
with anyone and shutdown emotionally. When her town started to open up over time, 
there was fear of having contact with anyone. She was alone at work , since she 
“supervises herself,” and went home where she was alone with her animals. Inflation took 
a big toll on her financial resources. Everything was more expensive. Then she needed 
a new septic tank, costing $10,000. She found herself withdrawing. (Tr. at 24-26.) 
Applicant received a raise in 2021 and earned $11,000 more than she did in 2020. 
Her tax withholding was insufficient to cover her increased tax liability. She received  a 
$2,000 raise in 2022 and increased her withholding, but again it was insufficient to cover 
her tax liability. The Tax Advisor was not available to advise her on these changes. Her 
income dropped a little in 2023, but she raised her withholding again, generating a n 
excess of payments over her tax obligation. (Tr. at 31-34; GE 3 at 27, 29, 31.) 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
   
      
      
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
  
  
   
    
 
  
  
  
  
    
In the Questionnaire, Applicant volunteered information about her late filing of tax 
returns and delinquent taxes. She started taking steps to file her tax returns for 2020 
through 2022 in June 2023, before she received the SOR. (GE 1 at 30.) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for national security eligibility, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s national security eligibility. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. The entire 
process is a conscientious scrutiny of applicable guidelines in the context of a number of 
variables known as the whole- person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires, “Any doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. I have not drawn inferences based on mere speculation or 
conjecture. 
Directive ¶ E3.1.14, requires the Government to present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, “The applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel, and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable clearance decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants national 
security eligibility. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk the 
applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or safeguard classifie d 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as 
to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified or sensitive information. 
Finally, as emphasized in Section 7 of Executive Order 10865, “Any determination under 
this order adverse to an applicant shall be a determination in terms of the national interest 
and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
    
        
 
  
   
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
  
 
       
  
 
 
 
   
   
   
 
 
  
  
 
See also Executive Order 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information.) 
Analysis  
Paragraph 1, Guideline  F  (Financial  Considerations)  
The security concerns relating to the guideline for alcohol consumption are set out 
in AG ¶ 21, which states: 
The security concerns relating to the guideline for financial considerations are set 
out in AG ¶ 18, which reads in pertinent part: 
Failure to live within one’s means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
AG ¶ 19 describes two conditions that could raise security concerns and may be 
disqualifying in this case: 
(c) a history of not  mee
 ting financial  obligations; and  
(f) failure to file or fraudulently filing annual Fed er al, state, or local income 
tax returns  or failure to pay  annual Federal, state,  or local income tax  as 
required.  
The docu
mentary evidence in the record, Applicant’s admissions in the Answer, 
and her testimony at the hearing establish that she failed to file Federal income tax returns 
and to pay Federal taxes, as required. Both mitigating conditions apply. Accordingly, the 
burden shifts to Applicant to mitigate security concerns under Guideline F. 
The guideline includes the following five conditions in AG ¶ 20 that could mitigate 
the security concerns arising from Applicant’s financial difficulties: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
under
 such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good judgment;    
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
    
  
  
      
    
    
  
     
   
   
    
   
    
       
  
   
   
 
 
  
  
   
 
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial  probl em were largely beyond  
the person’s control  (e.g., loss of employment, a business  downturn,  
unexpected medical emergency, or a death, divorce or separation, clear  
victimization by  predatory  lending practices, or identity theft), and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;   
(c) the individual has received or is receiving financial counseling for the 
probl
em from a legitimate and credible source, such as  a non-profit credit  
counseling service, and there are clear indications that  the problem is  
being resolved or is under control;   
(d) the individual initiated and is  adher ing to a good-faith effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  and  
(g) the individual has  mad e arrangements with the  appropriate tax  authority  
to file or  pay the amount owed and is in compliance with those  
arrangements.  
All
 of the above mitigating conditions have been established. Applicant’s behavior 
occurred under circumstances unlikely to recur and does not cast doubt on her reliability 
trustworthiness, or judgment. The circumstances she encountered in 2020 through 2022 
were largely beyond her control, and she acted responsibly once she had the opportunity 
to correct her tax problems. She received excellent tax advice from her Tax Advisor, as 
evidenced by the filing of the returns following the Pandemic shutdown and the detailed 
letter from the Tax Advisor, which Applicant attached to the Answer. The record contains 
clear indications that Applicant’s tax problems are being resolved and are under control. 
Applicant has filed her federal tax returns for TY 2020 through TY 2022. She has also 
initiated and is adhering to a good- faith effort to repay her delinquent taxes. Finally, she 
has made appropriate arrangements with the IRS to pay the taxes owed for TYs 2021 
and 2022 and has provided evidence that she has begun to pay her delinquent taxes. 
The IRS has already substantially reduced her tax obligations with Applicant’s 
overpayment of her taxes in TYs 2023 and 2024. Although her track record of payments 
under her payment plan with the IRS is not long, the amount of her monthly payments is 
well within her financial ability to pay , and a large part of the debt will be repaid with her 
overpayment for TY 2025 after she files her tax return in 2026. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for national security eligibility by considering the totality of the 
applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should 
consider the nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
    
    
   
     
     
    
    
  
    
    
 
 
 
      
  
 
  
 
   
 
 
    
   
   
                                                  
 
 
 
 
 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other  permanent behavioral  changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant national security 
eligibility must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. I considered the above whole- person 
factors and the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all pertinent 
facts and circumstances in this case. I have given consideration to Applicant’s maturity 
and her strong sense of duty and commitment to her job in support of DoD. She convinced 
me that there is no likelihood of a recurrence of her failure to file and pay her taxes as 
required. She has the excellent assistance of the Tax Advisor to make sure she does not 
find herself in this position again. With that advice, s he has taken steps to increase her 
tax withholding to an appropriate level. Overall, the record evidence leaves me with out 
questions or doubts as to Applicant’s suitability for national security eligibility and a 
security clearance. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by ¶ E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  G
 uideline F:   FOR  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 1.a  and 1.b:  For  Applicant  
Conclusion  
In l
ight of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant national security eligibility. Eligibility 
for access to classified information is granted. 
JOHN BAYARD GLENDON 
Administrative Judge 
7 