 
 
 
 
                                                              
                         
          
           
             
 
 
 
 
     
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
  
  
    
 
      
     
 
 
  
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR Case No.  24-01106  
 )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance  )  
Appearances  
For Government: Carroll J. Connelley, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Patrick Korody, Esq. 
09/29/2025 
Decision 
HYAMS, Ross D., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to mitigate the financial considerations security concerns. Eligibility 
for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On July 25, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA ) 
issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under 
Guideline F (financial considerations). Applicant answered the SOR on September 15, 
2024, and requested a hearing before an administrative judge. The case was assigned 
to me on April 1, 2025. 
The hearing convened  on May 6, 2025. Applicant proceeded pro se.  Department  
Counsel submitted Government Exhibits (GE)  1-7,  which were admitted in evidence  
without objection. Applicant  submitted  Applicant’s Exhibits (AE)  A-D,  which were admitted  
without objection.  After the hearing concluded, Applicant  retained counsel to prepare a  
post-hearing submission.  On June 30 th, she  submitted  a letter and attachments, which  
are marked AE  E-DD,  and were  admitted without objection.     
Fi
ndings of Fact  
 
 
 
 
      
   
  
 
        
   
   
  
 
     
    
    
    
      
    
       
     
     
 
 
  
    
    
        
   
    
       
 
     
   
  
     
     
       
         
  
 
       
    
    
 
        
   
Applicant admitted all SOR allegation s, ¶¶ 1.a-1.s. H er admissions are 
incorporated into the findings of fact. Based on my review of the pleadings, evidence 
submitted, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. 
Applicant is 55 years old. She is self-employed as a court reporter and has about 
thirty years of experience. She is not married and has no children. She earned a 
bachelor’s degree in 2000 and a master’s degree in 2002. She has been recognized for 
her skill in the court reporting field. (Tr. 13-16; AE D) 
In 2016, Applicant started her own court reporting business. At that time, she had 
to purchase her own equipment. Her initial employment opportunities fell through, and 
she had to pay for her equipment without the expected income. It took some time to build 
her contacts and business. She was behind on her bills by the end of 2016 and considered 
filing for bankruptcy. In 2018, she discovered a debt relief company and testified that she 
paid them about $300 a month for three years to get her debts lowered or discharged. At 
the end of the three-year period, the debt relief company was supposed to assist her with 
credit building. However, in 2021, she discovered that the company had closed, and she 
did not receive this service. At th at time, she started getting sued by her creditors. (Tr. 
16-71; GE 4; AE H) 
Applicant claimed that she paid the debt relief company the monthly fee to 
negotiate with her creditors, not make debt payments. She paid them at least $11,000, 
and they only resolved a few accounts for her. She does not know what happened to the 
rest of the money she paid them. She did not monitor their activities closely while she was 
paying them and later found that they had bad reviews under the Better Business Bureau 
(BBB) and were alleged to be scamming customers. She had filed a Chapter 7 Bankruptcy 
in 1998 and was too embarrassed to do so again. (Tr. 16-71; GE 5) 
Applicant reported she made less money in 2020 because the court houses shut 
down during the COVID -19 pandemic. In 2024, Applicant worked less and earned less, 
because her mother was in the hospital, her father passed away, and her mother moved 
in with her. She now pays for some of her mother’s care expenses. (Tr. 16-71) 
The SOR alleges 19 debts. From her testimony at the hearing, it was clear that 
Applicant did not know much about the origin, current status, or plan for resolution of the 
debts. The allegations are as follows: 
SOR ¶ 1.a is a charged off credit card account for $3,576. Applicant did not provide 
sufficient evidence of resolution of this account. She provided evidence of resolution of 
another account with t he same creditor . Post hearing, she requested verification of the 
debt with the creditor, and provided litigation documentation involving the same creditor, 
but that documentation did not clearly tie it to this account or debt. This debt is unresolved. 
(Tr. 16-71; GE 2, 3; AE A, B, C, K) 
2 
 
 
 
      
       
   
   
 
     
     
     
 
      
     
     
 
      
    
     
 
        
     
     
 
       
     
     
 
     
    
   
 
       
     
     
 
         
     
     
 
     
     
     
 
       
     
     
 
SOR ¶ 1.b is a charged off credit card account for $2,747. Applicant did not provide 
sufficient evidence of resolution. Post hearing, she reached out to the creditor to make a 
settlement arrangement, and she may have made tw o $100 payments. This debt is 
unresolved. (Tr. 16-71; GE 2, 3; AE L) 
SOR ¶ 1.c is a charged off credit card account for $2,095. Applicant did not provide 
sufficient evidence of resolution. Post hearing, she requested verification of the debt with 
the creditor. This debt is unresolved. (Tr. 16-71; GE 2, 3; AE M) 
SOR ¶ 1.d is a charged off credit card account for $1,697. Applicant did not provide 
sufficient evidence of resolution. Post hearing, she requested verification of the debt with 
the creditor. This debt is unresolved. (Tr. 16-71; GE 2, 3; AE N) 
SOR ¶ 1.e is a charged off credit card account for $1,618. Applicant did not provide 
sufficient evidence of resolution. Post hearing, she requested verification of the debt with 
the creditor. This debt is unresolved. (Tr. 16-71; GE 2, 3; AE O) 
SOR ¶ 1.f is a charged off credit card account for $1,610. Applicant did not provide 
sufficient evidence of resolution. Post hearing, she requested verification of the debt with 
the creditor. This debt is unresolved. (Tr. 16-71; GE 2, 3; AE P) 
SOR ¶ 1.g is a collection account for a bank for $1,574. Applicant did not provide 
sufficient evidence of resolution. Post hearing, she requested verification of the debt with 
the creditor. This debt is unresolved. (Tr. 16-71; GE 2, 3; AE Q) 
SOR ¶ 1.h is a charged off credit card account for $1,389. Post hearing, Applicant 
requested verification of the debt with the creditor , and in mid -June made a settlement 
arrangement. (Tr. 16-71; GE 2, 3; AE R) 
SOR ¶ 1.i is a collection account for a bank for $1, 267. Applicant did not provide 
sufficient evidence of resolution. Post hearing, she requested verification of the debt with 
the creditor. This debt is unresolved. (Tr. 16-71; GE 2, 3; AE S) 
SOR ¶ 1.j is a collection account for a bank for $1,199. Applicant did not provide 
sufficient evidence of resolution. Post hearing, she requested verification of the debt with 
the creditor. This debt is unresolved. (Tr. 16-71; GE 2, 3; AE T) 
SOR ¶ 1.k is a charged off credit card account for $1,193. Applicant did not provide 
sufficient evidence of resolution. Post hearing, she requested verification of the debt with 
the creditor. This debt is unresolved. (Tr. 16-71; GE 2, 3; AE U) 
SOR ¶ 1.l is a collection account for a bank f or $1,153. Applicant did not provide 
sufficient evidence of resolution. Post hearing, she requested verification of the debt with 
the creditor. This debt is unresolved. (Tr. 16-71; GE 2, 3; AE V) 
3 
 
 
 
    
    
   
 
      
    
   
 
      
    
   
 
     
     
   
 
         
   
   
 
     
   
  
 
       
    
      
   
 
     
      
     
      
     
 
      
  
       
 
        
   
      
  
    
 
SOR ¶ 1.m is a charged off credit card account for $1,035. Post hearing, Applicant 
requested verification of the debt with the creditor , and in mid -June made a settlement 
arrangement. (Tr. 16-71; GE 2, 3; AE W) 
SOR ¶ 1.n is a collection account for a bank for $1,000. Post hearing, Applicant 
requested verification of the debt with the creditor , and in mid -June made a settlement 
payment. (Tr. 16-71; GE 2, 3; AE X) 
SOR ¶ 1. o is a collection account for a bank for $997. Post hearing, Applicant 
requested verification of the debt with the creditor , and in mid -June made a settlement 
payment. (Tr. 16-71; GE 2, 3; AE Y) 
SOR ¶ 1.p is a charged off credit card account for $ 915. Post hearing, Applicant 
requested verification of the debt with the creditor , and in mid -June made a settlement 
payment. (Tr. 16-71; GE 2, 3; AE Y) 
SOR ¶ 1. q is a c ollection account for a bank for $825. Post hearing, Applicant 
requested verification of the debt with the creditor, and in late June made a settlement 
arrangement. (Tr. 16-71; GE 2, 3; AE Z) 
SOR ¶ 1. r is a collection account for a bank for $791 . Post hearing, Applicant 
requested verification of the debt with the creditor, and in late June made a settlement 
arrangement. (Tr. 16-71; GE 2, 3; AE AA) 
SOR ¶ 1. s is a collection account for a bank for $306 . Applicant did not provide 
sufficient evidence of resolution. Post hearing, she requested verification of the debt with 
the creditor. Information she provided did not match the debt or the creditor. This debt is 
unresolved. (Tr. 16-71; GE 2, 3; AE BB) 
At the hearing, Applicant reported she has a $7,000 debt with a hospital for two 
emergency room visits, that are not alleged on the SOR. She did not have health 
insurance at the time. She testified that she last spoke with the creditor in March 2024, 
but has not yet made payment arrangements. After the hearing she sent a $100 payment 
on this debt. This debt is unresolved. (Tr. 16-71; AE I) 
Applicant reported that she owes about $88,000 in student loans that have been 
previously deferred but would have to enter repayment soon. She also testified that she 
has a payment plan with the IRS to pay about $500 in taxes owed. (Tr. 16-71; AE J) 
Post hearing, Applicant took credit counseling. She provided character letters and 
certificates of professional accomplishments. Applicant provided a monthly budget , in 
which she claims to have $590 monthly remainder. In 2017 and 2022, despite her 
delinquent debt, she traveled overseas for a court -reporting competition and vacation. 
(Tr. 16-71; GE 1; AE F, CC, DD). 
4 
 
 
 
 
  
    
    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
  
    
      
  
  
   
 
     
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
 
  
  
 
  
 
    
  
 
Policies  
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines (AG), which became 
effective on June 8, 2017. 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified infor mation. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
 
 
 
 
    
 
   
   
 
   
   
 
 
   
 
   
    
 
 
   
   
  
   
  
 
Analysis 
Guideline F, Financial Considerations  
The security concern for financial considerations is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one’s means, satisfy debts,  and meet financial  
obligations may  indicate poor  self-control, lack of judgment, or  
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise  
questions about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to  
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial  distress can  also be  
caused or exacerbated by,  and thus can be a possible indicator of, other  
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling,  mental  
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An  
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to  
engage in illegal  or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds.   
This concern is broader than the possibility that an individual might knowingly 
compromise classified information in order to raise money. It encompasses concerns 
about an individual’s self-control, judgment, and other qualities essential to protecting 
classified information. An individual who is financially irresponsible may also be 
irresponsible, unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding classified 
information. ISCR Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012). 
The guideline notes conditions that could raise security concerns under AG ¶ 19. 
The following are applicable in this case: 
(a)  i
nability to satisfy  debts; and  
(c)  his
tory of not meeting financial obligations. 
Conditions that could mitigate the financial considerations security concerns are 
provided under AG ¶ 20. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
und
er such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good judgment;  
(b) t
he conditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely beyond 
the person’s control (e.g., loss of employment, a business downturn, 
unexpected medical emergency, a death, divorce or separation, clear 
victimization by predatory lending practices, or identity theft), and the 
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances; 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
   
   
 
 
     
      
   
   
   
   
   
 
     
    
   
   
   
 
    
      
    
     
    
 
    
  
       
 
      
   
 
 
  
 
    
   
(c) the individual  has
  received or is receiving financial counseling for the  
problem  from a  legitimate and credible source, such as a non- profit credit  
counseling service,  and there  are clear indications that the problem is being  
resolved or is under control;  and  
(d) the i
ndividual initiated and is adhering to a good- faith effort to repay 
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts. 
AG ¶ 20(a) does not apply. Applicant’s failure to pay her charged off and delinquent 
debt is recent, not isolated, and ongoing. This continues to cast doubt on her current 
reliability, trustworthiness, and judgment. 
AG ¶ 20(b) does not apply. In 2016, Applicant started a new business. I t was 
reasonable for her to incur startup costs and expect there to be income interruptions at 
the start of her business. These were not circumstances beyond her control. In 2018, 
Applicant put minimal effort in finding and vetting a debt resolution company. She blindly 
sent them monthly payments, was unsure of the services they were supposed to be 
providing, and did not follow up on their efforts until it was too late. She did not act 
responsibly under the circumstances. 
AG ¶¶ 20(c) and (d) do not apply. Applicant did not take financial counseling until 
after the hearing. She did not make payment arrangements until after the hearing, and 
these were for a few of her smaller debts. I do not credit her post-hearing efforts. I cannot 
find the problem is being resolved or under control, or that she has made a good faith 
effort to repay creditors or resolve debt. 
Too many of Applicant’s substantial efforts occurred post hearing. She knew very 
little about her debts at the hearing and had put minimal effort into resolving delinquent 
debt until it was clear she might not be granted a security clearance. She did not provide 
responsible oversight of the credit repair company efforts to ensure that she was making 
progress in resolving delinquent debt. 
The Appeals Board has held that an Applicant who waits until h er clearance is in 
jeopardy before resolving debts might be lacking in the judgment expected of those with 
access to classified information, ISCR Case No. 15-03208 at 5 (App. Bd. Mar. 7, 2017) , 
and that waiting to pay legitimate debts until forced to do so by the security clearance 
process does not constitute good-faith debt resolution. See ISCR Case No. 10-05909 at 
3 (App. Bd. Sep. 27, 2012). 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
7 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
   
    
  
   
 
   
    
 
    
 
      
    
 
   
 
    
 
 
     
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. I considered the potentially 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances 
surrounding this case. I have considered the character letters and Applicant’s certificates 
of professional accomplishments . I have incorporated my comments under Guideline F 
in my whole-person analysis. 
Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts about 
Applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance. I conclude that Applicant has not mitigated 
the financial considerations security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  Guideline F:  AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a-1.s:  Against  Applicant  
Conclusion  
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant a security 
clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Ross D. Hyams 
Administrative Judge 
8 