 
 
 
                                                              
                         
          
           
             
 
 
    
  
        
      
   
 
   
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
  
     
 
   
      
    
   
    
     
  
 
       
      
   
  
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-02469 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Tara Karoian, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
12/19/2025 
Decision 
BORGSTROM, Eric H., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not mitigate the foreign influence security concerns. Eligibility for 
access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
On March 18, 2025, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) 
issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under 
Guideline B (foreign influence) . The DCSA acted under Executive Order (EO) 10865, 
Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; 
Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security 
Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the 
adjudicative guidelines (AG) implemented by the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
In Applicant’s April 1, 2025 response to the SOR (Answer) , he denied, with 
explanations, all three allegations . He did not attach any documentary evidence. He 
requested a decision by a n administrative judge of the Defense Office of Hearings and 
Appeals based upon the written record in lieu of a hearing. (Answer) 
 
 
    
  
    
   
 
  
  
 
     
    
   
    
   
 
    
     
   
   
   
 
  
    
  
  
    
  
  
 
 
    
  
 
     
   
 
     
  
  
 
   
    
        
  
    
  
On May 16 , 2025, Department Counsel submitted a file of relevant material 
(FORM) and provided a complete copy to Applicant. Department Counsel’s FORM 
included Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 4. The FORM also includes materials for 
administrative notice of the security concerns regarding Russia (AN 1). In the FORM, 
Department Counsel provided Applicant notice that failure to respond to the FORM may 
be considered a waiver of any objections to the admissibility of the evidentiary exhibits 
and administrative notice materials. 
On May 28, 2025, Applicant received the FORM and its attachments. A cover letter 
included with the FORM advised Applicant that he had 30 days from the date of receipt 
to file any objections or to provide any additional information in support of his clearance 
eligibility. He did not respond to the FORM or raise any objections to the admissibility of 
any of the evidentiary exhibits or administrative notice materials. 
The case was assigned to me on September 2, 2025. GE 1 through 4 are admitted 
into evidence, without objection. AN 1 is received, without objection, for administrative 
notice of the security concerns regarding Russia. My decision was delayed when all 
administrative judges were furloughed from October 1 through November 12, 2025, 
during a federal government shutdown due to a lapse in federal funding. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 29 years old. At birth, he acquired dual citizenship of the United States 
and Russia, based upon his mother’s Russian citizenship and both parents’ U.S. 
citizenship. Applicant graduated from high school in the U.S. in 2013, and he earned a 
bachelor’s degree in the U.S. in 2019. Since June 2019, he has been employed full time 
as a test engineer with a DOD contractor. He was granted a secret clearance in November 
2020. He married in December 2017 and separated in September 2022. He resides with 
his six-year-old child. (GE 3) 
The SOR alleges foreign influence security concerns arising from his familial 
contacts in Russia. He denied all the allegations in his Answer. 
SOR ¶ 1.a. Applicant’s mother was born in Azerbaijan. She met Applicant’s father, 
married, and relocated to the United States. She became a naturalized U.S. citizen. After 
Applicant’s father died in 2018, she sold her home and returned to Russia in 2019 to care 
for her aging parents. She maintains dual citizenship of Russia and the United States. 
She has resided in Russia since 2019 with Applicant’s maternal grandmother. Applicant’s 
maternal grandfather died in 2022. (GE 3-4) 
Applicant maintains daily contact with his mother by electronic or text message. 
As to his relationship with his mother, he wrote, “I am very close with my mother. I have 
contact with her daily by text message and weekly telephone calls via WhatsApp.” She 
most recently visited Applicant and his daughter in the United States in 2022. Applicant’s 
mother subsists on her savings and the proceeds of her home. She owns a vacant 
apartment in Belarus and the apartment where she and her mother reside. (GE 3-4) 
2 
 
 
    
  
  
 
     
  
  
  
    
 
 
   
   
    
     
   
    
    
   
   
 
    
   
 
     
    
     
 
    
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
     
   
 
 
  
   
  
SOR ¶ 1.b. Applicant’s maternal grandmother is a citizen of Belarus, and she 
resides with Applicant’s mother in Russia. Applicant has quarterly contact with his 
grandmother by telephone. (GE 3) 
SOR ¶ 1.c. Applicant has several extended family members on his mother’s side 
with whom he maintains contact. One maternal aunt and one maternal uncle are citizens 
and residents of Russia. They reside in Russia with their spouses and adult children 
(Applicant’s cousins), who are all Russian citizens. A second maternal aunt is a citizen of 
Belarus, and she resides in Russia. She has an adult child who is a citizen of Belarus and 
who resides in Russia. (GE 3) 
Applicant participates in a group text chat with his mother and extended family 
members on his mother’s side of the family (SOR ¶ 1.c.). Family members exchange 
messages daily, but Applicant estimated that he only initiates texts in the group chat about 
once a week or every two weeks. He typically sends pictures of his child. His messages 
directly to his Russian family members vary from monthly to quarterly to annually. He has 
not seen any of these extended family members since his trip to Russia in 2017. Some 
of his family members have completed their required military service, including one uncle 
and one cousin. Applicant was unsure what ongoing contacts, if any, his extended family 
members had with the Russian military or government. (GE 3-4) 
On February 8, 2024, Applicant submitted a sworn statement delineating his 
familial contacts in Russia. The sentiments of Applicant and his family members about 
U.S., Russian, and Ukrainian foreign policy positions were not considered in the 
assessment of the Applicant’s clearance eligibility. Applicant’s own loyalty is not 
questioned. In his sworn statement, Applicant professed his loyalty to the United States, 
even in the face of hypothetical threats against his family members. (Answer; GE 4) 
Applicant traveled to Russia to visit family members from June to August 2013, 
from June to July 2014, in August 2016, and August 2017. (GE 3) In his sworn statement, 
he explained why he maintained a valid Russian passport and his relationships and 
contacts with his family members, in pertinent part, as follows: 
I maintain my citizenship with Russia and Russian passport because of 
ease of travel to visit my family in Russia. If I didn’t have this passport I 
would have to go through the process of getting a Visa, which is more 
difficult than just using my Russian passport to travel there and currently 
likely impossible for a U.S. citizen only. Having the ability to easily visit my 
family is the most important thing to me. I do not feel a need to renounce 
my Russian citizenship. I am an American and my loyalty is to the United 
States, but this doesn’t negate the fact half of my family lives in Russia. (GE 
4) 
Applicant has no siblings. He has four half-siblings who are citizens and residents 
of the United States. There is no evidence in the record as to the nature of his relationship 
with these relatives or his frequency of contact with them . He listed references in his 
3 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
     
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
   
  
   
  
 
   
  
    
   
  
   
  
 
 
  
    
    
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
    
  
  
security questionnaire, including a best friend, who is a citizen and resident of the United 
States. He did not provide any further information about his frequency and nature of those 
contacts here in the United States. (GE 3-4) 
Administrative Notice  
I have taken administrative notice of the following facts concerning the Russian 
Federation (Russia), excerpted from the materials proffered by Department Counsel: 
Russia has a highly centralized, authoritarian political system. The Russian 
Government uses arbitrary designations, criminal convictions, and administrative barriers 
to disqualify potential opposition candidates. (AN 1) 
Russia’s 2014 violation of Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity preceded 
its 2022 full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Russia’s armed forces committed numerous war 
crimes and other atrocities and abuses. Authorities used new laws to punish dissent and 
independent expression in Russia, and they jailed antiwar protesters and political 
opposition figures, prosecuted numerous individuals for online expression, forced closure 
of nongovernment organizations, and continued transnational repression against critics 
abroad. Independent of the Ukraine conflict, significant human rights abuses are 
committed by the Russian Government against its own people.  (AN 1) 
In its February 2023 Annual Threat Assessment, the Office of the Director of 
National Intelligence (ODNI), reported that Russia will remain a formidable and less 
predictable challenge to the United States for the next decade. The ODNI also assessed 
that R ussia will continue to use an array of tools to advance what it sees as its own 
interests and try to undermine the interests of the United States. Russian government -
affiliated cyber espionage likely will remain a persistent threat to Federal, state, and local 
governments, as well as entities in the defense, energy, nuclear, aviation, transportation, 
and other industries. (AN 1) 
In June 2024, the U.S. Department of State issued a Level 4 Travel Advisory for 
Russia, advising U.S. persons not to travel to Russia due to the consequences of the 
Ukraine conflict. U.S. citizens may face harassment or detention by Russian security 
officials, arbitrary enforcement of local laws, and the possibility of terrorism. Russian 
officials have interrogated and threatened U.S. citizens without cause. This includes 
former and current U.S. government and military personnel and private U.S. citizens 
engaged in business. Russian security services have arrested U.S. citizens on false 
charges, denied them fair treatment, and convicted them without credible evidence. (AN 
1) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant ’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
4 
 
 
      
   
 
 
    
 
  
  
    
      
 
 
 
  
   
 
     
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
 
   
 
    
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
    
   
    
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to sensitive information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
sensitive information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard sensitive information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of sensitive information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline B: Foreign Influence  
The security concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 6 as follows: 
Foreign contacts and interests, including, but not limited to, business, 
financial, and property interests, are a national security concern if they result 
in divided allegiance. They may also be a national security concern if they 
create circumstances in which the individual may be manipulated or induced 
5 
 
 
   
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
to help a foreign person, group, organization, or government in a way 
inconsistent with U.S. interests or otherwise made vulnerable to pressure 
or coercion by any foreign interest. Assessment of foreign contacts and 
interests should consider the country in which the foreign contact or interest 
is located, including, but not limited to, considerations such as whether it is 
known to target U.S. citizens to obtain classified or sensitive information or 
is associated with a risk of terrorism. 
Two disqualifying conditions (AG ¶ 7) under this guideline are relevant to this case: 
(a) contact, regardless of  me
 thod, with a foreign family  member, business  
or professional associate, friend, or other person who is a citizen of or  
resident in a foreign country if  that contact  creates a heightened risk of  
foreign exploitation,  inducement,  manipulation, pressure,  or coercion; and  
(b) connections to a foreign person, group, government, or country that  
cr
eate a potential conflict of interest between the individual’s obligation to  
protect classified or sensitive information or technology and the individual’s  
desire to help a foreign person, group,  or country by  providing that  
information or  technology.  
“The U
nited States has a compelling interest in protecting and safeguarding 
[sensitive] information from any person, organization, or country that is not authorized to 
have access to it, regardless of whether that person, organization, or country has interests 
inimical to those of the United States.” ISCR Case No. 02-11570 at 5 (App. Bd. May 19, 
2004). The nature of a nation’s government, its relationship with the United States, and 
its human rights record are relevant in assessing the likelihood that an applicant’s family 
members are vulnerable to coercion. 
The materials for administrative notice concerning Russia detail the significant  
security concerns raised by the Russian Government, its hostility towards the United  
States, its intelligence -collecting activities targeting the United States, and significant  
human-rights issues.  “An applicant with family members living in a country hostile to the  
U.S. has a very heavy burden to show that they are not a means  through which the  
applicant can be subjected to coercion or exploitation.” ISCR Case No. 11- 12659 at 3  
(App. Bd.  May 30,  2013).  The Government  has established a “heightened risk” required 
under AG ¶ 7(a) concerning Applicant’s relatives in Russia. Given the active, capable,  
and hostile entities within Russia, Applicant  must overcome the “very heavy burden” to  
show that his foreign  contacts are not  a means through which he may be influenced or  
coerced.  AG ¶¶  7(a)  and 7(b) apply to Applicant and hi s  family members in Russia.  
The following mitigating conditions (AG ¶ 8) under this guideline are potentially 
relevant: 
(a) the nature of  the
  relationships with foreign  persons, the country in which  
these persons are located,  or the positions  or activities of those persons in  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
    
    
   
 
 
 
   
    
   
   
  
     
   
   
 
    
 
 
 
   
   
   
    
that country are such  that it is unlikely the individual will be placed in  a  
position of having to choose between the interests of a foreign individual,  
group, organization,  or government  and the interests of the United States;  
(b) there is no conflict  of i
 nterest, either because the individual’s sense of  
loyalty or obligation to the foreign person,  group, government, or country is  
so minimal, or the individual has such deep and longstanding relationships  
and loyalties in the U.S., that the individual can be expected to resolve any  
conflict of interest in favor of the U.S. interest; and  
(c) contact  or c ommunication with foreign citizens is so casual and  
infrequent  that there is little likelihood that it  could create a risk for  foreign  
influence or exploitation.   
The adm
inistrative notice materials detail the security concerns regarding Russia. 
Independent of Applicant’s own sentiments towards Russian policies, the circumstances 
in Russia – its targeting of U.S. sensitive information, its human rights abuses, and its 
arbitrary detention of Russian and U.S. citizens – require Applicant to overcome a “very 
heavy burden” in mitigation. 
Applicant’s mother, a dual  citizen of  the U nited States  and Russia, returned to  
Russia to care for her parents, and because Applicant and his daughter were her only  
family members  in the United States. By  his own admission, Applicant  is  “very  close”  to  
his mother, and he maintains frequent contact with her.  See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 00 -
0484 at 5 (App. Bd. Feb. 1,  2002) (There is a rebuttal presumption that contacts with  
one’s immediate family members  are not casual). There is  no impropriety or  misconduct  
in  maintaining a close relationship with one’s parent; however, this relationship creates  a  
potential conflict of interest.  
Applicant’s mother lives with Applicant’s grandmother, and Applicant directly 
contacts his grandmother telephonically on a monthly basis. He maintains contact with 
his extended family members in Russia through a group chat, to which he contributes 
photos of his child once a week or every two weeks. Applicant had limited or no 
information about his family members’ contacts with the Russian military or government. 
Although Applicant’s contacts with these extended family members are less frequent and 
the nature of the relationships are not as close as that which he has with his mother, I 
must consider the web of familial relationships. See ISCR Case No. 02-04786 at 4 (App. 
Bd. June 27, 2003) (“[F]amily relationships can be complex in nature, involving more than 
just the one- on-one relationship between two family members.” ). Applicant’s mother 
returned to Russia to care for Applicant’s grandmother and to be closer to her family 
members. 
Applicant’s daughter is a U.S. citizen and resides with Applicant. In his sworn 
statement, Applicant passionately discussed his loyalty to the United States, even in the 
face of hypothetical pressure applied to his foreign family members. Notwithstanding 
Applicant’s relationship with his daughter (a U.S. citizen), Applicant has not established 
7 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
    
     
      
 
      
   
   
  
   
      
  
 
      
 
  
   
  
   
    
   
     
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
deep and longstanding relationships in the United States such that he can be expected 
to resolve any conflict of interest in favor of the U.S. interest. None of the foreign influence 
mitigating conditions apply. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information by considering the totality of the 
applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should 
consider the nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; ( 5) the  extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. I considered the potentially 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances 
surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under Guideline B and the 
factors in AG ¶ 2(d) in this whole-person analysis. 
Applicant’s education and professional career have occurred exclusively in the 
United States; however, he maintains close and frequent contacts with his family 
members in Russia, especially his mother. A determination as to one’s clearance eligibility 
is not an assessment as to one’s loyalty to the United States. Rather, it i s a predictive 
judgment based on an evaluation of the potential conflicts of interest. Here, Applicant’s 
familial contacts are natural and appropriate; however, they make him vulnerabl e to 
influence and exploitation by a country that has the means and the desire to harm U.S. 
interests. He has not mitigated the security concerns arising from his relationships with 
his family members in Russia. This decision should not be construed as a determination 
that Applicant cannot obtain a security clearance in the future. Eligibility for access to 
classified information is denied. 
8 
 
 
 
      
    
 
   
 
    
 
  
   
     
       
 
 
 
 
 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  G
 uideline B:   AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a.-1.c:  Against  Applicant  
Conclusion  
In l
ight of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, I conclude 
that it is not clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant Applicant ’s 
eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Eric H. Borgstrom 
Administrative Judge 
9 