 
                                                              
                         
          
           
             
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
     
    
 
 
      
        
 
      
 
   
  
   
    
   
     
  
______________ 
______________ 
DEPART
MENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In  the matter  of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR  Case No.  24-01208  
 )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance  )  
 
 
Appearances  
For Government: Tara R. Karoian, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
08/08/2025 
Decision 
BLAZEWICK, Robert B., Chief Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not mitigate the security concerns under Guideline F (Financial 
Considerations). Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
On September 27, 2024, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline F. 
Applicant responded to the SOR on November 15, 2024, and requested a decision 
on the written record in lieu of a hearing. The Government’s written case was submitted 
on January 29, 2025. A complete copy of the file of relevant material (FORM) was 
provided to Applicant, who was afforded an opportunity to file objections and submit 
material to refute, extenuate, or mitigate the security concerns. Applicant received the 
FORM on February 6, 2025 . He timely submitted documentation which was labeled as 
Applicant’s Exhibits (AE) A through I. The case was assigned on May 30, 2025 . The 
Government exhibits included in the FORM and AE A-I are admitted in evidence without 
objection. 
 
 
 
       
   
    
      
   
   
       
 
       
    
  
     
 
   
   
    
    
  
  
       
 
  
 
     
  
 
    
    
    
    
   
   
   
  
  
   
   
 
  
  
   
 
       
    
Findings of Fact  
The SOR alleges Applicant failed to file Federal (SOR ¶ 1.a) and state (SOR ¶ 1.b) 
income tax returns for tax years 2009- 2014, and that he owes $831 in delinquent state 
income tax for tax year 2017 (SOR ¶ 1.c) . He admitted failing to file the tax returns but 
denied owing $831 in state income tax . The failure to file allegations are supported by 
Applicant’s 2017 security clearance application (SCA), his interrogatory response, and 
his response to the SOR. The evidence does not support the allegation that Applicant is 
delinquent on his state taxes for tax year 2017. (Items 2, 4, 5) 
Applicant is 60 years old. He has worked for a defense contractor since about 
August 2023. He has some amount of college education and was currently enrolled in 
community college as of the signing of his SCA in 2023. He has been married since 2010 
and has three minor children. (Item 3) 
In his 2017 SCA, Applicant indicated that he failed to file and pay his 2010, 2012, 
2013, and 2014 Federal and state returns and taxes. He explained that he had a business 
that failed and that he hired an accountant to help him with the unfiled returns, but he ran 
out of money to pay the accountant. Applicant said that although most of those years he 
sent in estimated payments, the accountant still estimated that Applicant owed about 
$15,000. He stated, “[u]ntil I can afford to finish and file my taxes so we know exactly what 
is owed, I am unable to w ork out a payment arrangement.” Applicant did not report any 
tax issues on his 2023 SCA, presumably because his tax issues f ell outside the seven-
year reporting window. (Items 3, 5) 
In his response to interrogatories and in AE A , Applicant explained that in about 
2003, he and his mother purchased a coffee shop business. She handled the 
bookkeeping for the business, but unfortunately at the same time, she started to develop 
Alzheimer’s disease. It took some time before Applicant realized not only that she was 
not up to the task, but that her illness had caused the business’s finances and 
recordkeeping to fall into complete disarray. He worked with several accountants to 
remedy the issues, but they were missing documents, and Applicant did not know how to 
locate them. Eventually Applicant was no longer able to afford an accountant as the 
business declined and his mother died. He could not pay the rent, he lost the lease to the 
business, and it closed. Federal tax account transcripts from 2010 to 2014 reflect that no 
returns were filed those years, and the 2009 records could not be found. Payments were 
sent in 2012 and 2011, but the 2011 payment was dishonored. In his most recent 
submission, AE A, he argues “there are mitigating circumstances that are not entirely my 
fault that made filing impossible.” (Item 4; AE A, D) 
Applicant struggled financially for years after the business closed but has since 
been able to find financial stability. He does not have any delinquent debt on his credit 
reports. He has annually earned between $37,000 and $60,000 since 2017. He provided 
documentation showing that he timely filed Federal and state tax returns from 2015 to 
2023. He received thousands of dollars in tax refunds every year except for his state taxes 
in 2017, when he owed $831, and in 2018, when the Federal government initially refunded 
2 
 
 
  
    
   
    
 
    
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
    
  
 
 
     
   
  
     
    
  
      
 
 
   
   
    
   
     
    
 
     
  
  
   
   
   
 
 
him and then assessed additional tax, which was paid with his 2021 refund. His 2015 
refund went to taxes owed in tax years 2006 and 2011. There is no evidence that the 
2017 state tax owed was ever delinquent, and in fact Applicant provided verification in AE 
C that he does not owe any state taxes. (Items 4, 6, 7; AE A-C, E-G) 
Applicant was rated “fully satisfactory” in his most recent work performance review. 
The review praises the significant progress Applicant has made in his job and his 
methodical approach to the work. A friend and pastor, Reverend W, provided a letter of 
support. He praised Applicant’s trustworthiness, dependability, and integrity. He stated 
that he was familiar with the situation that led to Applicant’s tax issues, and he believes 
the combination of Applicant’s mother’s declining health, the complex tax issues, and the 
loss of critical documents caused Applicant’s responsibilities to become overwhelming. 
(AE H, I) 
Policies  
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order 10865, Safeguarding Classified 
Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 5220.6, 
Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as 
amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) implemented by the DOD on 
June 8, 2017. 
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
decision. An a dministrative judge must consider all available and reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
3 
 
 
   
   
    
   
  
 
   
   
 
  
 
  
  
   
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
 
  
   
 
  
   
   
   
  
  
   
 
 
 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865 
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant 
has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have 
established for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The g uidelines 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 15-01253 at 3 
(App. Bd. Apr. 20, 2016). 
Once the  G overnment establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial  
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive  ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of  proving a mitigating condition,  
and the burden of disproving it  never shifts to the  Government.  See  ISCR Case No.  02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep.  22,  2005).   
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent  
with the national interest to grant or continue  his security clearance.”  ISCR Case No.  01-
20700 at  3 (App. Bd.  Dec. 19, 2002).  “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  Egan, 484 U.S. at 531.   
Analysis  
Guideline F, Financial Considerations  
The concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one ’s means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual ’s reliability, trustworthiness , and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
The following disqualifying conditions are relevant: 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
   
      
   
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
   
 
     
  
  
 
   
     
   
 
       
   
AG  ¶ 19(a):  inability to  s atisfy debts;   
AG  ¶  19(c):  a history of not  meeting financial obligations; and   
AG ¶ 19(f): failure to file or fraudulently filing annual Federal, state,  or  local 
income tax returns or failure to pay  annual Federal, state,  or local income  
tax as required.  
The ev
idence in the FORM and Applicant’s admissions establish AG ¶¶ 19(a), (c), 
and (f) for SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b. There is no evidence that he was delinquent on paying 
his 2017 state taxes, therefore SOR ¶ 1.c is found for Applicant. 
The following mitigating conditions are potentially applicable: 
AG ¶ 20 (a):  t he behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or  
occurred under such circumstances that it is  unlikely to recur and does not  
cast doubt  on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  
judgment;   
AG  ¶ 2 0 (b):  t he conditions that resulted in the financial  problem were largely  
beyond the p erson’s  control  (e.g.,  loss of employment, a business  
downturn, unexpected medical  emergency,  a death, divorce or  separation,  
clear victimization by  predatory lending practices,  or identity theft), and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;   
AG ¶ 20(d ) :  the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- fa ith effort to  
repay overdue creditors or otherwise resolve  debts; and  
AG ¶ 20(g): the individual has made arrangements with the appropriate tax  
aut
hority to file or pay the amount  owed and is in compliance with those  
arrangements.  
AG ¶ 20(a) only partially applies. Applicant has not incurred new tax debt since at 
l
east 2015 and has timely filed all required returns since that year. The reasons for his 
unfiled returns are due to fairly unusual circumstances beyond his control, i.e., the impact 
of his mother’s illness on his business’s records and his inability to afford an accountant 
after his business closed. Given that he is no longer a business owner, i t is unlikely he 
will fail to file in the future. Applicant still has not filed his delinquent tax returns, however, 
and has been advised that he likely owes delinquent taxes from those years. Failure to 
comply with tax laws suggests that an applicant has a problem with abiding by well -
established government rules and systems. Voluntary compliance with rules and systems 
is essential for protecting classified information. See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 16-01726 at 5 
(App. Bd. Feb. 28, 2018) . A person who fails repeatedly to fulfill his or her legal 
obligations, such as filing tax returns when due, does not demonstrate the high degree of 
good judgment and reliability required of those granted access to classified information. 
See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 17-01382 at 4 (App. Bd. May 16, 2018). Though the tax years 
in question are over ten years ago, the unfiled returns and possible taxes owed are a 
5 
 
 
   
  
 
        
     
    
  
  
 
  
 
     
   
   
    
   
     
    
   
 
  
 
 
   
   
   
   
    
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
    
    
current and ongoing concern that casts doubt on his current reliability, trustworthiness, 
and good judgment. 
While the returns may have been unfiled due to circumstances beyond his control, 
he ultimately did not act responsibly under the circumstances . He initially hired 
accountants to help him, and he sent one successful payment to the Federal government, 
but he stopped trying to resolve the issue when he could no longer afford the accountant. 
The earliest information we have regarding Applicant’s ceasing work with an accountant 
is his 2017 SCA, so it appears he stopped using an accountant sometime prior to 
completing that document. 
Since at least 2017, if not earlier, Applicant has made no progress on his tax issues 
apart from money involuntarily taken out of his 2015 Federal tax return to pay taxes owed 
for 2011 and 2006. Although he wrote in his 2017 SCA that he cannot finish filing his 
returns until he can afford it, it is unclear why he cannot currently afford address ing his 
tax issues, which he now describes as “impossible.” He has worked at his current 
employer since 2023. Though he makes a modest income, he has been receiving large 
tax refunds since 2016. He has no other delinquent debt. It appears he has resolved his 
other previous financial issues related to his business closing. H e has not demonstrated 
why he cannot now begin to address his tax issues, and instead gives the impression that 
he has given up on them entirely. AG ¶¶ 20(b), (d), and (g) are not established. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. In applying the whole-
person concept, an administrative judge must evaluate an applicant ’s eligibility for a 
security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct and all relevant 
circumstances. An a dministrative judge should consider the nine adjudicative pr ocess 
factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5)  the  extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.   
I have incorporated my comments under Guideline F in my whole-person analysis 
and applied the adjudicative factors in AG ¶ 2(d). Because Applicant requested a 
determination on the record without a hearing, I had no opportunity to evaluate his 
credibility and sincerity based on demeanor. See ISCR Case No. 01-12350 at 3-4 (App. 
Bd. Jul. 23, 2003). After weighing the disqualifying and mitigating conditions under 
6 
 
 
     
      
 
 
 
      
    
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
         
     
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
________________________ 
Guideline F and evaluating all the evidence in the context of the whole person, I conclude 
Applicant has not mitigated the security concerns raised under Guideline F, financial 
considerations. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:  AGAINST  APPL
 ICANT  
Subparagraphs 1.a-b:  Against  A pplicant  
Subparagraph 1.c:  For Applicant  
Conclusion  
I conc
lude it is not clearly consistent with the national security interests of the 
United States to grant Applicant eligibility for access to classified information. Clearance 
is denied. 
Robert B. Blazewick 
Chief Administrative Judge 
7 