 
 
                                                              
                         
          
           
             
 
 
    
  
       
   
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
    
 
 
      
     
      
   
     
     
 
  
  
   
  
   
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00611 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Andrew H. Henderson, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
05/16/2025 
Decision 
COACHER, Robert E., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to mitigate the financial considerations security concerns. Eligibility 
for access to classified information is denied. 
History  of the Case  
On April 24, 2024, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued Applicant a Statement 
of Reasons (SOR) detailing security concerns under Guideline F, financial considerations. 
The DOD acted under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information 
within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; D OD Directive 5220.6, Defense 
Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended 
(Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines implemented by DOD on June 8, 2017 (AG). 
Applicant answered the SOR, and he requested a hearing before an administrative 
judge. His SOR answer included attachments that were not objected to by Department 
Counsel. The case was assigned to me on January 7, 202 5. The Defense Office of 
Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a notice of hearing on November 14, 2024, 
scheduling the hearing on January 31, 2025, using the video capabilities of the Microsoft 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
 
 
 
       
    
  
  
 
 
        
    
 
      
    
   
     
 
      
     
      
   
   
    
 
   
    
 
 
   
  
    
  
    
    
  
 
  
  
   
    
Teams platform. Before the original hearing date, a request for a continuance was granted 
and an amended notice of hearing was issued on January 10, 2025, and the hearing was 
held as rescheduled on March 14, 2025. DOHA received the hearing transcript (Tr.) on 
March 25, 2025. 
The Government offered exhibits (GE) 1 through 5, which were admitted into 
evidence without objection. The Government’s exhibit list and discovery letter were 
marked as HE I and II. Applicant had exhibits at the hearing, but he was unable to provide 
them to Department Counsel before or during the hearing, so Applicant exhibits (AE) A1 
through A 15 were admitted post -hearing after Department Counsel had a chance to 
review them and declined any objections. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant admitted two SOR allegations ( ¶¶ 1. b and 1. d) and denied two 
allegations (¶¶ 1.a and 1.c). I make the following findings of fact. 
Applicant is a 34-year-old employee of a U.S. defense contractor. He began 
working at his current job as an over-the-road truckdriver in April 2023. He is a high school 
graduate. He is currently engaged, has never married previously, and has no children. 
Applicant earns about $8,000 net income a month. (Tr. 6, 23, 46; GE 1) 
Under Guideline F, the SOR alleged that Applicant failed to timely file his federal 
income tax returns for tax year s 2018, 2020, and 2021, as required (SOR ¶ 1. a). The 
SOR further alleged that he owed delinquent federal taxes of approximately $14,000 for 
tax years 2018 through 2023, which remained unpaid after April 2024 (SOR ¶ 1.b) . The 
SOR also alleged that he was delinquent on two debts in the approximate amounts of 
$9,700 and $2,900, respectively (SOR ¶¶ 1.c-1.d). 
Applicant gave a couple of reasons for his failure to timely file his federal tax returns 
for 2018, 2020, and 2021. Before that timeframe, a former girlfriend had always prepared 
his returns, but starting with the 2018 return she no longer assisted him. Additionally, he 
was unemployed during some of the time and received unemployment benefits, which he 
did not know was taxable income requiring him to file federal returns. It was sometime in 
2020 to 2021 that he learned that his 2018 return had not been filed. He claims to have 
filed all three returns (2018, 2020, and 2021) on April 12, 2024. He failed to provide 
documentary evidence supporting that assertion. He further claimed that he had trouble 
communicating with the IRS, which lengthened his late filings. He was also paying other 
debts, which caused him to delay his federal tax filings. (Tr. 27-29, 32-33, 36; GE 2 (tax 
transcripts for 2018, 2020-2021 showing no return filed)) 
Applicant admitted that he owed federal taxes in the approximate amount of 
$14,000. He provided documentation that he has entered several payment arrangements 
with the IRS over the years . He was paying $100 monthly before he lost his job in 2020 
due to the COVID pandemic. Currently he has reduced his overall balance down to 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
     
      
  
   
   
 
    
   
   
 
 
     
   
   
    
   
 
 
 
     
 
   
      
     
 
 
    
   
     
   
   
 
        
       
   
   
     
 
   
   
approximately $7,000.  His current payment toward the IRS  debt  is $800 a month.  (Tr. 39-
40;  AE A1-A5)  
The first non -IRS delinquent debt (SOR ¶ 1. c) was to a credit union for the 
deficiency balance on a car Applicant financed. The car was repossessed when he could 
not make the loan payments after he lost his job. He talked to a credit restoration service 
about the debt and was told he did not have to pay it because it was over seven years 
old and beyond the statute of limitations making it unenforceable. He has not made 
arrangements to pay this debt. (Tr. 41-43) 
The second non- IRS delinquent debt (SOR ¶ 1.d) was incurred when he was 
charged for damage to his apartment. Applicant documented that the debt was paid in 
April 2024. (Tr. 43-44; AE A14-A15) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant ’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider t he adjudicative guidelines . In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, t he adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing t he 
complexities of human behavior, t hese guidelines are applied in conjunction with t he 
factors listed in t he adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as t he 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical , and based on t he evidence 
contained in the record. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in t he SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel , and has t he 
ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
    
    
    
    
 
   
   
    
  
 
 
 
   
 
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
 
   
   
 
 
    
 
 
  
 
     
     
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of t he possible risk 
that an applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation about potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that decisions shall be “in terms of t he national 
interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to t he loyalty of t he applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline F, Financial Considerations  
AG ¶ 18 expresses the security concern for financial considerations: 
Failure to live within one ’s means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual ’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
Affluence that cannot be explained by known sources of income is also a 
security concern insofar as it may result from criminal activity, including 
espionage. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns. I have 
considered all of them under AG ¶ 19 and the following potentially apply: 
(a) inability to satisfy  debt
 s;    
(c) a history of not  mee ting financial  obligations;  and  
(f) failure to file or fraudulently filing annual Federal, state, or local  i ncome 
tax returns  or failure to pay annual Federal, state,  or local income tax as  
required.    
The evi
dence showed Applicant failed to timely file his federal income tax returns 
for tax years 2018, 2020, and 2021. He also failed to pay his taxes owed. Additionally, he 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
     
  
    
       
   
   
   
  
   
      
   
     
   
 
 
    
     
    
   
 
was delinquent on two consumer debts. I find the above disqualifying conditions are 
raised by the evidence. 
The guideline also includes conditions that could mitigate security concerns arising 
from financial difficulties. I have considered all of the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 
and the following potentially apply: 
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial  probl em were largely beyond  
the person’s control  (e.g., loss of employment, a business downturn,  
unexpected medical  emergency, a death, divorce or separation, clear  
victimization by  predatory lending practices, or identity theft),  and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;   
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- fai th effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts; and  
(g) the individual has  mad e arrangements with the appropriate tax authority  
to file or  pay the amount owed and is in compliance with those  
arrangements.  
Appli
cant claims to have now filed all his delinquent tax returns, yet he failed to 
document that fact. Even if he has filed all his returns, that was not done until after the 
SOR was issued. H is reason for not timely filing is that he put the responsibility on 
someone else, which obviously has no mitigative effect. None of the mitigating factors 
apply to his failure to timely file his income tax returns. He acknowledged owing the IRS 
approximately $14,000, and to his credit , has paid that down to about $7,000 through a 
payment plan with the IRS . The COVID pandemic had some impact on this financial 
status because he lost his job. This certainly was a circumstance beyond his control. 
However, the evidence does not show that he acted responsibly regarding his 
repossessed car debt when he allowed it to age-off his credit report without paying it. He 
does receive some mitigating credit for resolving the apartment debt and entering into a 
payment plan with the IRS. AG ¶¶ 20(d) and 20(g) apply to SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.d. AG ¶ 
20(b) does not apply. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under t he whole-person concept, t he administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all t he circumstances. The administrative judge should consider t he nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the  nature, extent,  and seriousness of t he  conduct; (2) t he  
circumstances surrounding t he  conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) t he  frequency and recency of t he  conduct; (4)  the  
individual’s  age and maturity  at the  time  of the  conduct; (5)  the  extent to  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
           
 
 
   
     
 
     
   
    
 
 
      
    
 
    
 
      
 
     
   
 
      
      
     
                                                
    
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the  presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation for  the  conduct;  
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) t he  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), t he ultimate determination of w hether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
relevant facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my 
comments under Guideline F in my whole-person analysis. 
Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts about 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance . For all these reasons, I 
conclude Applicant failed to mitigate the financial considerations security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  G
 uideline F:   AGAI
NST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs: 1.a  and  1.c:  Against Applicant 
Subparagraphs: 1.b  and  1.d:  For Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Robert E. Coacher 
Administrative Judge 
6 