 
 
                                                              
           
             
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
    
    
    
 
    
   
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
DEFENSE OFFICE  OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS  
In the matter of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR Case No. 24-01162  
 )  
Applicant for  Security Clearance  )  
A
ppearances  
For Government: Tara R. Karoian, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
06/05/2025 
Decision  
KATAUSKAS, Philip J., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant contests the Defense Department’s intent to deny his eligibility for access 
to classified information. He failed to mitigate the security concerns stemming from his 
drug involvement and substance misuse. Accordingly, this case is decided against 
Applicant. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted his security clearance application (SCA) on August 14, 2023. 
The Department of Defense (DOD) issued Applicant a Statement of Reasons (SOR) on 
August 15, 2024, detailing security concerns under Guideline H, drug involvement and 
substance misuse. The DOD acted under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, 
Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive); and Security Executive Agent Directive 4, National 
Security Adjudicative Guidelines, effective within the DOD as of June 8, 2017. 
On September 5, 2024, Applicant submitted an answer (Answer) to the SOR and 
elected a decision on the written record by an administrative judge from the Defense 
1 
 
 
    
 
 
 
  
  
  
     
 
 
       
        
     
     
   
  
 
      
     
      
   
    
   
   
     
   
    
   
 
     
   
    
  
 
   
    
   
  
   
  
  
 
 
    
      
Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA). On November 13, 2024, Department Counsel 
submitted the Government’s file of relevant material (FORM), including documents 
identified as Government’s Exhibits (GE) 1 through 4. DOHA sent the FORM to Applicant 
on November 15, 2024, and he received it on January 28, 2025. He was afforded 30 days 
after receiving the FORM to file objections and submit material in refutation, extenuation, 
or mitigation. Applicant did not submit a response to the FORM. The SOR and the Answer 
(GE 1 and 2, respectively) are the pleadings in the case. GE 3 and 4 are admitted in 
evidence without objection. The case was assigned to me on April 2, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 30 years old, never married, and has no children. Since August 2021, 
he has had a cohabitant. He earned his bachelor’s degree in May 2016 and his doctorate 
in May 2023. He has worked as a researcher for his clearance sponsor since September 
2021. He is a freelance writer and editorial assistant . He has had articles and editorial 
roles with a major cable TV network and has been published in specialty periodicals. He 
has never had a security clearance. (GE 3.)  
Under Guideline H, the August 15, 2024 SOR alleged that Applicant: (a) used 
marijuana with varying frequency from about 2012 to about August 2024; (b) purchased 
marijuana with varying frequency from about 2012 to about July 2024; (c) used psilocybin 
(mushrooms) with varying frequency from about 2020 to about July 2023; (d) purchased 
psilocybin with varying frequency from about 2022 to about April 2023; (e) as of your 
DOHA interrogatory response on about August 2024, you intend to continue to use 
marijuana in the future; and (f) as of your DOHA interrogatory response on about August 
2024, you intend to continue to use psilocybin in the future. (GE 1.) Applicant admitted 
SOR ¶¶ 1. a through 1.e. He denied ¶ 1 .f stating: “I have not used it since this process 
started and would plan on continuing for this to be the case for as long as I’m up for a 
security clearance.” (GE 2.) 
In Applicant’s August 2023 SCA, he addressed his future intention to use 
marijuana and psilocybin. As to marijuana, he stated: “It’s not important enough to me to 
continue with it.” As to psilocybin, he stated: “Again, it’s not important enough to me to 
continue it if I had a job with security clearance.” (GE 3.) 
In Applicant’s December 1, 2023 personal subject interview (PSI) , he discussed 
his drug use. H e traced his first marijuana use to his college days in 2012 to 2014. His 
use was recreational, and it relaxed him. But when he began having panic attacks 
associated with his use in certain settings, he chose to stop. He resumed use in 2022, 
when it became legal in the state of his domicile. He continues that use weekly. He used 
mushrooms beginning in 2009. He uses alone or with his cohabitant. His last use was in 
July 2023. (GE 4.) 
Applicant has not reported his drug use to his employer. He has never been drug 
tested by his employer, nor has he ever failed a drug test. He will continue his drug use, 
until his employer requests that he stops using. He is aware that drug use as a federal 
2 
 
 
    
    
     
 
 
      
       
    
   
 
                     
        
            
        
           
           
      
  
employ
ee is prohibited. He does not plan to stop because he enjoys it. He claims he is 
not dependent on drugs. His employer’s drug-free workplace policy prohibits the use of 
illegal drugs in the workplace or working while under the influence of illegal drugs. (GE 
4.) 
The Government’s interrogatories asked when Applicant became aware that 
marijuana was federally illegal. He answered August 2006. (GE 4.) He was also asked if 
he intended to continue to use marijuana or other illegal drugs in the future. On August 3, 
2024, he responded in pertinent part as follows: 
- - . 
I am not addicted to marijuana and other psychedelic drugs; I enjoy 
them but do not need them. Since marijuana is legal in my state (and 
the Justice department has recently proposed to reschedule it to 
Schedule Il or the equivalent of Tylenol) I will continue to use it until told 
otherwise on the assumption that the law is just now catching up to the 
science surrounding hallucinogens and marijuana. (GE 4.) 
    Law and Policies  
 
   
 
     
   
 
             
     
   
  
   
 
 
  
 
             
  
 
    
     
 
 
 
 
It i
s well established that no one has a right to a security clearance. As the 
Supreme Court held, “the clearly consistent standard indicates that security 
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy 
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988). 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, an 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are 
flexible rules of law that apply together with common sense and the general factors of the 
whole-person concept. An administrative judge must consider all available and reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 
2(b) requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national 
security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is then 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel. . . .” The 
applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion in seeking a favorable security decision. 
Discussion  
Guideline H, Drug Involvement  and Substance  Misuse  
3 
 
 
      
   
  
 
   
 
      
 
 
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
    
 
   
   
  
  
    
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
Under AG ¶ 24 for illegal drug use, suitability of an applicant may be questioned 
or put into doubt because drug use can both impair judgment and raise questions about 
a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of prescription 
and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances that cause 
physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner inconsistent with their 
intended purpose can raise questions about an individual's reliability and 
trustworthiness, both because such behavior may lead to physical or 
psychological impairment and because it raises questions about a person's 
ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations. Controlled 
substance means any controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. 
Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in this guideline to describe any 
of the behaviors listed above. 
Marijuana  and psilocybin  are  Schedule I controlled substances, and possession of    
them  is regulated by the federal  government under the Controlled Substances Act. 21  
U.S.C. § 811  et seq . The knowing or intentional possession and use of any such  
substance is unlawful and punishable by imprisonment, a fine or both. 21 U.S.C. § 844.  
In an October 25,  2014 memorandum, the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) affirmed  
that the use of  marijuana  in particular  is a security concern. James  R. Clapper, Director  
of National Intelligence, Memorandum:  Adherence to Federal  Laws  Prohibiting Marijuana  
Use  (October 25, 2014).  See also http://www.dea.gov/druginfo/ds.shtml  
On December 21, 2021, DNI signed the memorandum, Security Executive Agent 
Clarifying Guidance Concerning Marijuana for Agencies Conducting Adjudications of 
Persons Proposed for Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold 
a Sensitive Position. It emphasizes that federal law remains unchanged with respect to 
the illegal use, possession, production and distribution of marijuana. Individuals who hold 
a clearance or occupy a sensitive position are prohibited by law from using controlled 
substances. Disregard of federal law pertaining to marijuana (including prior medicinal or 
recreational marijuana use) remains relevant, but not determinative, to adjudications of 
eligibility. Agencies are required to use the “whole- person concept” stated under SEAD 
4, to determine whether the applicant’s behavior raises a security concern that has not 
been mitigated. 
AG ¶ 25 describes conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) any substance misuse (see above definition); and  
(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance, including . . . purchase . .  .
  .   
Appl
icant admitted facts that trigger disqualifying conditions AG ¶¶ 25(a) and (c). 
4 
 
 
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
   
 
     
     
       
    
     
       
     
   
  
 
       
 
    
  
   
 
    
  
   
  
 
 
The next inquiry is whether Applicant’s security concerns raised by marijuana and 
psilocybin use have been mitigated. The following mitigating condition under AG ¶ 26(b) 
for drug involvement is the most appropriate and will be discussed here: 
[T]he  individual  acknowledges . .  .  his drug involvement and substance  
misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and  
has established a pattern of  abstinence, including, but not limited to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-us ing associates and contacts;  
(2) changing or  av oiding the environment where drugs were used;  
and  
(3) providing a signed statement  of  intent to abstain from  all drug  
involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future  
involvement  or misuse is grounds for revocation of  national security  
eligibility.  
The i
nitial requirement of AG ¶ 26(b) is that Applicant acknowledges “his drug 
involvement and substance misuse.” He satisfied this requirement by his SCA, his PSI, 
his Answer, and his responses to interrogatories. 
One of the next requirements is that Applicant show evidence of an “established 
pattern of abstinence.” Three non-exclusive examples are given, none of which are 
established by any evidence in this case. In fact, the pattern of abstinence here is barely 
visible, if extant at all. The SOR was issued on August 15, 2024, and Applicant answered 
it on September 5, 2024 , admitting to marijuana use in August 2024. So, the pattern of 
abstinence can be measured in only a couple weeks, or maybe just days. Given his many 
years of illegal drug use, this pause is hardly the period of abstinence contemplated by 
AG ¶ 26(b). This mitigating condition does not apply. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under AG ¶ 2(a), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. AG ¶¶ 2(a) and (d)(1)-
(9). I have considered potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions and the whole-
person concept in light of all the facts and circumstances surrounding this case. 
Applicant leaves me with questions about his eligibility and suitability for a security 
clearance. For those reasons, I conclude that Applicant has not mitigated the security 
concerns arising under Guideline H, drug involvement and substance abuse. I find against 
him on SOR ¶ 1. 
Formal Findings  
5 
 
 
      
   
 
              
 
  
Formal
 findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by ¶ E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline H   
    
Subparagraphs 1.a  - 1.f:            
 
      AGAINST APPLICANT  
A
gains
t Applicant 
  Conc
lusion  
 
    
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
In ligh
t of all of the circumstances presented, it is not clearly consistent with the 
interests of national security to grant Applicant eligibility for access to classified 
information. National security eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Philip J. Katauskas 
Administrative Judge 
6 