___________ 
___________ 
DEPARTM
ENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance  
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 24-01768 
Appearances 
For Government: Karen A. Moreno-Sayles, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
09/26/2025 
Decision 
HARVEY, Mark, Administrative Judge: 
Guideline F (financial considerations) security concerns are not mitigated. 
Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case 
On April 2, 2024, Applicant completed an Electronic Questionnaires for 
Investigations Processing or security clearance application (SCA). (Government Exhibit 
(GE) 1) On December 27, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
(DCSA) issued a statement of reasons (SOR) to Applicant under Executive Order (Exec. 
Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960); 
Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security 
Clearance Review Program (Directive) (January 2, 1992), as amended; and Security 
Executive Agent Dir . 4, establishing in Appendix A, the National Security Adjudicative 
Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to 
Hold a Sensitive Position (AGs), effective June 8, 2017. (Hearing Exhibit (HE) 2) 
The SOR detailed reasons why the DCSA did not find under the Directive that it is 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant or continue a security 
clearance for Applicant and recommended referral to an administrative judge to determine 
whether a clearance should be granted, continued, denied, or revoked. Specifically, the 
SOR set forth security concerns arising under Guideline F. (HE 2) On January 9, 2025, 
Applicant provided his response to the SOR. On May 28, 2025, Department Counsel was 
ready to proceed. On June 2, 2025, the case was assigned to me. 
On June 26, 2025, the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a 
notice scheduling the hearing on July 25, 2025. The hearing was held as scheduled using 
the Microsoft Teams video teleconference system. 
During the hearing, Department Counsel offered five exhibits into evidence, and 
Applicant did not offer any exhibits into evidence. (Tr. 9-10, 16-17; GE 1 -GE 5) There 
were no objections, and all proffered exhibits were admitted into evidence. (Tr. 17) On 
August 1, 2025, DOHA received a copy of the transcript. No documents were received 
after the hearing. The record closed on September 24, 2025. (Tr. 40-41) 
Some details were excluded to protect Applicant’s right to privacy. Specific 
information is available in the cited exhibits and transcript. 
Findings of Fact 
In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a through 
1.d. He denied th e allegation in SOR ¶ 1. e. (HE 3) H is admissions are accepted as 
findings of fact. 
Applicant is a 33 -year-old assembly mechanic, and a DOD contractor has 
employed him for one year. (Tr. 7-8) In 2010, he graduated from high school. (Tr. 7) He 
intends to take cybersecurity classes at a community college. (Tr. 33) He has not served 
in the military. (Tr. 8) He has never married, and he does not have any children. (Tr. 8) 
Financial Considerations 
Applicant changed employments several times in recent years, and he moved out 
of state and then returned to his home state. His current hourly wage is $28.60. (Tr. 34) 
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges Applicant has a charged-off account for about $20,350. In 2018, 
he purchased a camper and financed it by borrowing from the SOR creditor. (Tr. 20) He 
purchased the camper to live in when he moved to a different state. (Tr. 21) After 11 
months, he moved back to his home state to be near family. (Tr. 21) He currently does 
not live in the camper because there is nowhere near work where he can live in the 
camper. (Tr. 21 -22) The monthly payments on the loan were $450. (Tr. 22) He tried to 
sell the camper; however, he was unable to sell it for what he owed on it. (Tr. 22) Either 
last year or the year before, he paid the creditor $1,200. (Tr. 23) He received a call from 
a debt collector about two weeks before his hearing, and he said he intended to call the 
creditor about the debt. (Tr. 23) Most likely, he will return the camper to the creditor and 
take “the hit” on his credit. (Tr. 23- 24) He did not provide documentation showing the 
$1,200 payment. 
2 
SOR ¶ 1.b alleges Applicant has a charged-off account for about $3,012. He was 
unsure of the origin of the debt, but possibly it was a credit card. (Tr. 24) His May 23, 
2025 credit bureau report (CBR) indicates the amount of the charge off is $2,626. (Tr. 25) 
He said he researched the debt; however, he hit “a brick wall.” (Tr. 25) He did not attempt 
to contact the creditor or dispute the debt. (Tr. 25) In the future, he intends to research 
the debt and determine how to resolve the debt. (Tr. 25) 
SOR ¶ 1.c alleges Applicant has an account placed for collection for about $2,708. 
About four years ago, he obtained a personal loan to pay his rent and to make his vehicle 
payment. (Tr. 26) He borrowed about $3,000, and he made enough $200 monthly 
payments to pay about half of the loan. (Tr. 27) His most recent payment was in early 
2024. (Tr. 27) He did not provide any documentation showing payments. (Tr. 27) He said 
he intends to pay this debt in the next month. (Tr. 28) 
SOR ¶ 1.d alleges Applicant has an account that is past due for about $808 with a 
total balance of $34,791. In 2018 or 2019, he purchased a vehicle, and he financed the 
debt with the creditor. (Tr. 28) The monthly payments were $950. (Tr. 28) A week or so 
before his hearing, he made a partial payment, and he intends to make a full payment 
after his hearing. (Tr. 30) His May 23, 2025 CBR shows a balance of $34,160 and $514 
past due on the account. (Tr. 30; GE 5) Applicant is credited with making payments on 
this debt because the past due amount is less than one month’s $950 payment. 
SOR ¶ 1.e alleges Applicant has a vehicle-related state tax debt for about $2,000, 
which resulted when he purchased the vehicle in 2018 or 2019. He made some partial 
payments. (Tr. 31) Applicant said he was 99 percent sure that the debt was paid in late 
2024, and he could obtain proof of payment. (Tr. 30-32) He was able to renew his driver’s 
license, and he believed that renewal might not have been possible if the debt was not 
paid. (Tr. 32) 
Policies 
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion of the Executive 
Branch in regulating access to information pertaining to national security emphasizing, 
“no one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 
518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority “to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual 
is sufficiently trustworthy” to have access to such information. Id. at 527. The President 
has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants eligibility for 
access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly consistent with the 
national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An 
3 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable, and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation 
about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Clearance 
decisions must be “in terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a 
determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 § 7. 
Thus, this decision should be construed to suggest that it is based on any express or 
implied determination about applicant’s allegiance, loyalty, or patriotism. It is merely an 
indication the applicant has not met the strict guidelines the President, Secretary of 
Defense, and Director of National Intelligence have established for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 95 -0611 at 2 
(App. Bd. May 2, 1996). 
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition by substantial 
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it 
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue his [or her] security 
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01- 20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). The burden of 
disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the Government. See ISCR Case No. 02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if 
they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; see AG ¶ 2(b). 
Analysis 
Financial Considerations 
AG ¶ 18 articulates the security concern for financial problems: 
Failure to live within one’s means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
4 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
AG ¶ 19 includes disqualifying conditions that could raise a security concern and 
may be disqualifying in this case: “(a) inability to satisfy debts ”; and “(c) a history of not 
meeting financial obligations.” 
The Appeal Board explained the scope and rationale for the financial 
considerations security concern in ISCR Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012) 
(citation omitted) as follows: 
This concern is broader than the possibility that an applicant might 
knowingly compromise classified information in order to raise money in 
satisfaction of his or her debts. Rather, it requires a Judge to examine the 
totality of an applicant’s financial history and circumstances. The Judge 
must consider pertinent evidence regarding the applicant’s self -control, 
judgment, and other qualities essential to protecting the national secrets as 
well as the vulnerabilities inherent in the circumstances. The Directi ve 
presumes a nexus between proven conduct under any of the Guidelines 
and an applicant’s security eligibility. 
In ISCR Case No. 08 -12184 at 7 (App. Bd. Jan. 7, 2010), the Appeal Board 
explained the role of CBRs in financial considerations analysis: 
It is well-settled that adverse information from a credit report can normally 
meet the substantial evidence standard and the government’s obligations 
under [Directive] ¶ E3.1.14 for pertinent allegations. At that point, the burden 
shifts to applicant to establish either that [he or] she is not responsible for 
the debt or that matters in mitigation apply. 
(internal citation omitted). 
The record establishes the disqualifying conditions in AG ¶ ¶ 19(a) and 19(c).  
requiring additional inquiry about the possible applicability of mitigating conditions. 
Discussion of the disqualifying conditions is contained in the mitigation section, infra. The 
financial considerations mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 which may be applicable in 
this case are as follows: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred 
under s
uch circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does not cast doubt 
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment; 
(b) the c
onditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely beyond 
the person’s control (e.g., loss of employment, a business downturn, 
unexpected medical emergency, a death, divorce or separation, clear 
5 
victimization by predatory lending practices, or identity theft), and the 
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances; 
(c) the individual has received or is receiving financial counseling for the 
proble
m from a legitimate and credible source, such as a non- profit credit 
counseling service, and there are clear indications that the problem is being 
resolved or is under control; 
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- fait h effort to repay 
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts; and 
(e) the indi
vidual has a reasonable basis to dispute the legitimacy of the 
past-due debt which is the cause of the problem and provides documented 
proof to substantiate the basis of the dispute or provides evidence of actions 
to resolve the issue. 
The Appeal Board in ISCR Case No. 10- 04641 at 4 (App. Bd. Sept. 24, 2013) 
explained Applicant’s responsibility for proving the applicability of mitigating conditions as 
follows: 
Once a concern arises regarding an Applicant’s security clearance 
eligibility, there is a strong presumption against the grant or maintenance of 
a security clearance. See Dorfmont v. Brown, 913 F. 2d 1399, 1401 (9th 
Cir. 1990), cert. denied, 499 U.S. 905 (1991). After the Government 
presents evidence raising security concerns, the burden shifts to the 
applicant to rebut or mitigate those concerns. See Directive ¶ E3.1.15. The 
standard applicable in security clearance decisions is that articulated in 
Egan, supra. “Any doubt concerning personnel being considered for access 
to classified information will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Directive, Enclosure 2 ¶ 2(b). 
AG ¶ 20(a) does not apply to the SOR debts. “It is also well established that an 
applicant’s ongoing, unpaid debts demonstrate a continuing course of conduct and can 
be viewed as recent for purposes of the Guideline F mitigating conditions.” ISCR 22-
02226 at 2 (App. Bd. Oct. 27, 2023) (citing ISCR Case No. 15-06532 at 3 (App. Bd. Feb. 
16, 2017)). 
Applicant changed employments several times in recent years, and he moved out 
of state and then returned to his home state. These circumstances were largely beyond 
his control. However, “[e]ven if [an applicant’s] financial difficulties initially arose, in whole 
or in part, due to circumstances outside his [or her] control, the [administrative judge] 
could still consider whether [the applicant] has since acted in a reasonable manner when 
dealing with those financial difficulties.” ISCR Case No. 05-11366 at 4 n.9 (App. Bd. Jan. 
12, 2007). The DOHA Appeal Board has said: 
[A]n applicant must act responsibly given his or her circumstances and 
develop a reasonable plan for repayment, accompanied by concomitant 
6 
conduct even if it may only provide for the payment of debts one at a time. 
ISCR Case No. 07 -06482 at 3 (App. Bd. May 21, 2008). What constitutes 
responsible behavior depends on the facts of a given case and the fact that 
an applicant’s debts will not be paid off for a long time, in and of itself, may 
be of limited security concern. ISCR Case No. 09- 08462 at 4. Relevant to 
the equation is an assessment as to whether an applicant acted responsibly 
given [his or] her limited resources . See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 08-06567 at 
3-4 (App. Bd. Oct. 29, 2009). 
ADP Case No. 23 -00547 at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 23, 2024). A component for analyzing 
responsible behavior in AG ¶ 20(b) is whether Applicant maintained contact with creditors 
and attempted to negotiate partial payments to keep debts current. Applicant did not 
provide correspondence from or to the creditors showing he maintained contact with 
them. He did not prove that he acted responsibly under the circumstances. 
Applicant’s SOR alleges he has five delinquent debts totaling $ 28,878. “[A] single 
debt can be sufficient to raise Guideline F security concerns.” ISCR Case No. 19-02667 
at 3 (App. Bd. Nov. 3, 2021) (citing ISCR Case No. 14-05366 at 3 (App. Bd. Feb. 5, 2016)). 
“Additionally, a single debt that remains unpaid over a period of years can properly be 
characterized as a history of not meeting financial obligations.” Id. 
The Appeal Board has previously stated that it is reasonable for a Judge to expect 
an applicant to present documentation corroborating actions taken to resolve debts. ISCR 
Case No. 19-03757 at 3 (App. Bd. Aug. 18, 2021) (citing ISCR Case No. 19-01599 at 3 
(App. Bd. Jan. 15, 2020) ). For most of the SOR debts, Applicant did not provide 
documentation showing: (1) proof of payments, such as checking account statements, 
photocopies of checks, or a letter from the creditor proving that he paid or made payments 
to the creditors; (2) correspondence to or from the creditors to establish maintenance of 
contact; (3) correspondence to creditors or CBRs showing credible debt disputes 
indicating he did not believe he was responsible for the debts and why he held such a 
belief; (4) more evidence of attempts to negotiate payment plans, such as settlement 
offers or agreements to show that he was attempting to resolve h is delinquent debts; or 
(5) other evidence of progress or resolution. He failed to establish mitigation under AG ¶ 
20(e) because he did not provide documented proof to sufficiently substantiate the 
existence, basis, or the result of any debt disputes. 
Applicant is credited with mitigating the debt in SOR ¶ 1.d, which was past due for 
$808, because he has a payment plan, and he is making payments on his vehicle. 
None of the mitigating conditions fully apply to the debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, 1.c, 
and 1.e. “[U]ntil an applicant has a meaningful financial track record, it cannot be said as 
a matter of law that [he or] she has initiated a good-faith effort to repay overdue creditors 
or otherwise resolved debts. The phrase ‘meaningful track record’ necessarily includes 
evidence of actual debt reduction through payment on debts.” ISCR Case No. 22-02226 
at 2 (App. Bd. Oct. 27, 2023) (citing ISCR Case No. 05- 01920 at 5 (App. Bd. Mar. 1, 
2007)). 
7 
There is no documentation establishing that Applicant is working to establish 
payment plans, has paid, or is making payments to the other creditors. I have lingering 
concerns about whether he will establish payment plans, pay, or otherwise resolve these 
four SOR debts, and maintain his financial responsibility. Financial considerations 
security concerns are not mitigated at this time.  
Whole-Person Concept 
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the Applicant’s 
conduct and all the circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), “[t]he ultimate determination” of whether to grant a security 
clearance “must be an overall common- sense judgment based upon careful 
consideration” of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. My comments under 
Guideline F are incorporated in my whole- person analysis. Some of the factors in AG ¶ 
2(d) were addressed under that guideline but some warrant additional comment. 
Applicant is a 33 -year-old assembly mechanic, and a DOD contractor has 
employed him for one year. In 2010, he graduated from high school. He intends to take 
cybersecurity classes at a community college. 
The evidence against grant of a security clearance is detailed in the financial 
considerations analysis section, supra, and this evidence is more substantial than the 
evidence of mitigation. He did not establish that he was unable to make more timely and 
significant documented progress resolving four of his SOR debts. The financial evidence 
raises unmitigated questions about his reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified information. See AG ¶ 18. 
This decision should not be construed as a determination that Applicant cannot or 
will not attain the state of reform necessary for award of a security clearance in the future. 
With more effort towards documented resolution of his debts and maintenance of his 
financial responsibility, he may well be able to demonstrate persuasive evidence of his 
security clearance worthiness. 
I have carefully applied the law, as set forth in Egan, Exec. Or. 10865, the Directive, 
the AGs, and the Appeal Board’s jurisprudence, to the facts and circumstances in the 
8 
context of the whole person. Applicant failed to mitigate financial considerations security 
concerns. 
Formal Findings 
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline F: AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 1.a, 1 .b, and 1.c: Against Applicant 
Subp
aragraph 1.d:
 Fo
r Applicant 
Subparagraph 1.e: Against Applicant 
Conclusion 
I conclude that it is not clearly consistent with the interests of national security to 
grant or continue Applicant’s national security eligibility for access to classified 
information. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Mark Harvey 
Administrative Judge 
9 