 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                      
                  
          
           
             
 
   
 
         
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
           
  
 
 
 
     
         
       
        
         
      
   
  
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00222 
) 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: 
Andrew Henderson, Esquire, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: 
Melissa L. Watkins, Esq. 
02/11/2025 
Decision 
GLENDON, John Bayard, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to mitigate the security concerns raised by h is past drug 
involvement. National security eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case 
Applicant submitted a Questionnaire for National Security Positions on July 18, 
2023 (2023 Questionnaire) . On March 8 , 202 4, the Defense Counterintelligence and 
Security Agency Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing secu rity concerns under Guideline H (Drug 
Involvement and Substance Misuse) and Guideline E (Personal Conduct). The action was 
taken under Executive Order 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information Within Industry 
(February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 5220.6, 
Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
         
 
 
         
          
       
             
            
    
 
       
      
     
          
      
         
          
        
           
     
 
 
 
       
           
       
          
        
         
          
         
       
     
 
 
          
          
     
           
            
      
 
amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) effective within DoD after June 
8, 2017. 
On May 27, 2024, Applicant responded, through counsel, to the SOR allegations 
(Answer) and requested a hearing before an administrative judge of the Defense Office 
of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA). Department Counsel was prepared to proceed on June 
21, 2024. The case was assigned to me on July 2 , 202 4. DOHA issued a Notice of 
Hearing on July 23, 2024, scheduling the case to be heard via Microsoft Teams video 
teleconference on August 29, 2024. 
I convened the hearing as scheduled. Department Counsel offered five documents 
marked as Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 5, which I admitted without objection. 
Applicant’s counsel offered ten exhibits marked as Applicant Exhibits (AE) A through J . 
Applicant and three witnesses testified at the hearing. I left the record open until 
September 1 3, 2024, to give Applicant the opportunity to supplement the record. 
Applicant timely submitted two exhibits, which I marked as A E K and L. Department 
Counsel objected to the relevance of Applicant’s supplemental exhibits. My ruling on his 
objection is set forth below. All other Applicant Exhibits were admitted without objection. 
DOHA received the transcript of the hearing (Tr.) on September 6, 2024. (Tr. at 13-16, 
91-92; post-hearing correspondence regarding Applicant’s supplemental exhibits marked 
as Hearing Exhibit I.) 
Evidentiary Ruling  
Department Counsel’s objection to Applicant’s supplemental exhibits (AE K and 
AE L) is overruled. AE K is a negative drug test scheduled and taken after the hearing. A 
negative drug test in the context of the SOR allegations and Applic ant’s mitigation 
response has some relevance. AE L is a summary of a visit with a doct or on August 27, 
2024, confirming that Applicant had previously been diagnosed with Attention Deficit 
Disorder (ADD) and was prescribed 10 mg of a medication to treat his condition . The 
doctor’s notes also state, “monitor for insomnia.” The notes are relevant to Applicant’s 
mitigation case, specifically Applicant’s testimony regarding his past drug use and current 
abstinence, his treatment for ADD, and his experience with insomnia. I will give AE K and 
AE L the weight they deserve in the context of the other evidence in the record. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 31 years old. He has never married and has no children . He earned 
a bachelor’s degree in May 201 5 and a master’s degree in business administration in 
December 2021. Applicant has worked for a U.S. defense contractor, first as an intern in 
the summer of 2014 and then as a full -time employee starting in June 2015. He 
maintained a Secret security clearance since February 2019. (Tr. at 17-21, 60; GE 2 at 
7, 12-15, 20-21; GE 5 at 1; AE A at 1.) 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
       
            
             
   
       
        
      
 
 
             
 
 
            
  
         
     
 
 
 
       
         
         
          
                
     
   
  
        
          
         
       
         
          
         
        
 
The Government alleged in the SOR that Applicant is ineligible for a security 
clearance because he used marijuana at various times, including a period when he held 
a sensitive position, i.e., one in which he held a security clearance. The SOR also alleges 
that Applicant deliberately provided false information in his initial security clearance 
questionnaire, submitted on November 13, 2017 (2017 Questionnaire) about when he 
began using marijuana again after a period of abstinence . The facts developed at the 
hearing and detailed in the documentary record are as follows: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline H (Drug Involvement and Substance Abuse)  
SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b. Purchase and Use of Marijuana (June 2011 to December 
2022). 
In his Answer, Applicant admitted “he used marijuana with varying frequency from 
June 2011 to December 2022” and that “he purchased marijuana with varying frequency 
over the period outlined herein.” Applicant disputes that he purchased and used during 
part of the alleged period. (Answer at 6-7.) 
In  his 2023  Questionnaire, Applicant disclosed  that  he  purchased  and  used  
marijuana  during  the  period  alleged  (2011  to  2022).  He  graduated  from  high  school  in  
June  2011, which  is  the  month  and  year he  first used  marijuana.  In  his 2017  
Questionnaire, he wrote  that he  used  marijuana  socially about once  every two-to-three  
months  during  the  period  June  2011  to  December  2014  (Period  1).  He noted  that  he  did  
not intend  to  use  marijuana  in  the  future  with  the  comment  that “I  have  no  need  to  use  it  
going  forward and  stopped  enjoying  the  feeling  it gave  when  I used  it.” (GE  1  at 12, 38-
39; GE 2 at 10, 32.)   
Applicant advised a government investigator in a September 2018 background 
interview that he purchased and used marijuana during his college years and that his last 
use was in December 2014, prior to his graduation the following Spring. He told the 
investigator that he stopped using the drug to focus on his grades and future career. He 
again commented that he has no intention to use marijuana in the future. As noted, he 
was granted a Secret clearance in February 2019, a few months after this interview. (GE 
3 at 2.) 
In his 2023 Questionnaire, Applicant again disclosed that he had purchased and 
used marijuana. He wrote that he used marijuana “[f]rom June 2016 to December 2022,” 
bought marijuana “once every three months ,” and “engaged in smoking marijuana as a 
means to assist sleep quality.” He also advised that he used marijuana while possessing 
a security clearance. Applicant claimed that he has since “found alternate ways to 
enhance my sleep quality without using marijuana” and did not intend to use marijuana in 
the future . He listed his last use of marijuana as occurring in December 2022, seven 
months prior to his submission of his second questionnaire. (GE 2 at 32, 33.) 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
           
           
        
          
          
          
  
    
        
        
      
       
        
  
 
          
           
         
       
           
          
  
 
       
     
           
           
         
    
 
          
   
 
        
        
  
 
        
              
         
          
           
       
         
       
In a September 2023 background interview in connection with hi s current 
application, Applicant advised the investigator that he used the drug to help improve his 
sleep during periods of insomnia . He purchased the drug from his roommates. He 
stopped using marijuana when he became more focused on his health and had no need 
to continue using it. He acknowledged that his employer’s policy does not permit drug 
use. Applicant affirmed that he has no intention to use marijuana or other drugs in the 
future. (GE 4 at 7.) 
Applicant testified that he used marijuana socially until he was a university senior 
and was preparing to commence full -time work with his current employer following his 
graduation. He knew that he had to pass a drug test to begin his post-graduation job. He 
also understood at that time that using marijuana was illegal under the laws of the state 
in which he attended university and was inconsistent with his future employer’s drug 
policy. (Tr. at 45-46, 59-60, 67.) 
In discussing his post-university use of marijuana, Applicant explained that he was 
diagnosed with ADD in 2017. He began taking a prescription medication for his condition 
that caused insomnia. He claimed that his doctor declined to prescribe a medication for 
insomnia. After experimenting with other possible solutions for insomnia , which he 
claimed were not helpful, Applicant turned to marijuana in December 2018 to improve his 
sleep and used the drug occasionally until December 2022 (Period 2). (Tr. at 47, 56, 65, 
71; GE 2 at 33.) 
Applicant further testified that in December 2022 , he made “significant lifestyle 
changes.” He began working out consistently and changed his diet . His doctor also 
decreased the dosage of his ADD medication. These steps, taken together, addressed 
his insomnia, and he had no need to continue using marijuana. He testified that he does 
not intend to use marijuana in the future, and he submitted a signed, sworn statement in 
support of his testimony. (Tr. at 48-49, 54; GE G.) 
SOR ¶¶ 1.c and 1.d . Purchase and Use of Marijuana while Holding a Sensitive 
Position (December 2017 through December 2022). 
As noted, Applicant resumed using marijuana in December 2018 and continued 
using the drug throughout Period 2. He admitted that shortly thereafter, he was gra nted 
a Secret security clearance. (Tr. at 62-63.) 
Applicant justified his illegal drug use on his belief that it was not objectionable 
because he was not working on a classified project and had no access to classified 
information during Period 2. He testified, “I didn’t think I had access to classified material,” 
because I was never briefed or read onto a program and was strictly supporting 
unclassified contracts.” Based upon this belief , he did not regard using the drug in his 
bedroom to sleep better was “a super big deal.” Applicant also explained that he knew 
some of his co -workers used marijuana and thought he could do the same. He never 
sought to confirm his belief with his supervisors or company’s security officials. He knew 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
      
  
     
         
           
          
          
          
 
 
            
      
 
       
                
       
      
          
        
           
            
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
               
            
      
       
that drug use by clearance holders was against the company’s drug policy. (Tr. at 49-50, 
53.) 
In the summer of 2023, Applicant was read onto a classified “program.” He had 
been offered a promotion and was approved for access to the program material. His 
manager requested that he apply to upgrade his clearance to Top Secret. At that point, 
he prepared the July 2023 Questionnaire. After the issuance of the SOR, Applicant was 
transferred to an unclassified project. (Tr. at 40-42, 49-51, 53: AE A at 1.) 
Paragraph 2, Guideline  E  (Personal Conduct)  
SOR ¶ 2.a. Falsification in 2017 Questionnaire regarding the full extent of drug use 
during the period from June 2011 to November 2017. 
This allegation is based upon Applicant’s disclosure in his 2023 Questionnaire in 
which he wrote that he started to use marijuana again in June 2016. In the 2017 
Questionnaire, Applicant did not disclose any marijuana use after December 2014. In his 
Answer, Applicant “adamantly denies” providing any false material information in his 2017 
Questionnaire. He testified that the June 2016 date was not the actual date when he 
started using marijuana again. He claimed that after his use of marijuana in December 
2014, his next use was in December 2018. He asserted that the June 2016 date provided 
in the 2023 Questionnaire was merely a reference to the seven -year time frame of the 
question to which he responded. (Answer at 5; Tr. at 62-63; GE 3 at 32-33.) 
Mitigation  
Applicant presented  the  testimony of three  witnesses and  several documents  in  
support of his case  for mitigation  of the  Government’s security concerns.  The  three  
witnesses  were  a  former supervisor (W1), his  second-tier  supervisor  (W2),  and  his  father  
(W3).  The  witnesses  also submitted  letters in  which  they provided  additional support for 
Applicant.    
W1  was  Applicant’s supervisor during  the  period  from  September  2023  to  May  
2024. Applicant was assigned  to  work on  a  classified  project  during  that period. W1  
described  Applicant  as  “reliable and  helpful.” Applicant  has given  W1  no  reason  to  believe  
that he  would be  unable to  protect classified  information. W1  admitted  that he  has not  
seen  Applicant’s responses on  his questionnaires. W1  wrote  in his letter that Applicant  
“has demonstrated  strong  work ethic, ability to  be  proactive  in team  building, and  a  strong  
support of the  program  mission  he  supports,”  and has shown “good  judgment and   
integrity.”  (Tr. at 18-22; AE  C.)  
W2 has known Applicant since 2018 and has worked with him on and off since that 
time. She believes that he is trustworthy and has no history of failing to follow the 
company’s rules. She confirmed that the company does not permit the use of marijuana 
by a clearance holder. In her letter, she wrote that Applicant “embodies [the employer’s] 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
           
 
 
    
        
          
        
         
        
     
      
  
          
    
        
  
 
        
       
          
        
         
 
 
           
    
     
       
          
       
   
 
     
        
   
        
   
 
           
      
         
       
   
       
leadership characteristics and is a valuable asset and leader within the organization.” (Tr. 
at 26-29; AE D.) 
W3 has seen the SOR and understands the Government’s concerns. He believes 
Applicant has been very honest with him. The family dynamic is very open and “does not 
encourage secrets.” He understands that his son’s use of marijuana was to help him sleep 
when he experienced insomnia. . W3 believes Applicant has resolved his insomnia and 
“is able to put [his use of marijuana] behind him and to follow rules and regulations of the 
Department, as well as that of his employer.” W3 also prepared a letter in which he spoke 
highly of his son’s character. He argued in his letter that Applicant “believe[s] in the United 
States and ha[s] a high patriotic belief.” (Tr. at 32-39; AE J.) 
Applicant also presented his 2023 and 2022 year-end reviews. He was rated a 
“Successful Performer” in both reviews. He also submitted portions of his 2021 , 2020, 
and 2019 year-end reviews. Each review rated Applicant as an “Excellent Performer.” (AE 
B at 1, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8.) 
On April 19, 2024, Applicant voluntarily took a drug test after receiving the March 
8, 2024 SOR. He tested negative for marijuana. On September 3, 2024, after the hearing, 
he took a second drug test outside of the context of his employment. That test was also 
negative for marijuana. Applicant also submitted a Certificate of Completion certifying that 
he took a four-hour drug and alcohol awareness class on April 6, 2024. (AE I; AE K, AE 
L.) 
Two days before the hearing, Applicant had an appointment with his doctor. After 
the hearing, Applicant submitted his doctor’s notes that briefly summarize the 
appointment. In item 3 of the summary, the doctor referred to Applicant’s ADD diagnosis 
and wrote: “ADD: continue 10 mg a day and monitor for insomnia or tachycardia 
[excessively high heart rate]; follow-up in 6 months -1 year for heart rate above 90 for 
more than an hour.” (AE L.) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for national security eligibility , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines (AG) list 
potentially disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in 
evaluating an applicant’s national security eligibility. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. The entire 
process is a conscientious scrutiny of applicable guidelines in the context of a number of 
variables known as the whole -person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
            
 
 
      
     
         
       
       
 
 
 
 
           
       
    
         
     
  
       
     
      
          
            
     
 
 
 
 
         
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires, “Any doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. I have not drawn inferences based on mere speculation or 
conjecture. 
Directive ¶  E3.1.14, requires the  Government to  present evidence  to  establish  
controverted  facts  alleged  in the  SOR. Under Directive ¶  E3.1.15, “The  applicant is   
responsible  for presenting  witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or  
mitigate  facts admitted  by the  applicant or proven  by Department Counsel, and  has the  
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining  a favorable clearance  decision.”  
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants national 
security eligibility. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk the 
applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or safeguard classifi ed 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as 
to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified or sensitive information. 
Finally, as emphasized in Section 7 of Executive Order 10865, “Any determination under 
this order adverse to an applicant shall be a determination in terms of the national interest 
and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” 
See also Executive Order 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information.) 
Analysis 
Paragraph 1  - Guideline H, Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
 
The security concerns relating to the guideline for drug involvement and substance 
misuse are set out in AG ¶ 24, which reads as follows: 
The  illegal use  of controlled  substances,  to  include  the  misuse  of
prescription  and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances
that  cause  physical or mental impairment  or are  used  in a  manner
inconsistent with  their  intended  purpose  can  raise  questions about an
individual’s reliability and  trustworthiness, both  because  such  behavior may
lead  to  physical or psychological impairment and  because  it raises
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and  regulations. Controlled  substance  means  any “controlled  substance” as
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
         
  
 
 
 
         
 
 
            
           
        
            
  
 
          
         
      
             
   
       
          
                
 
 
 
       
        
  
 
 
 
defined  in 21  U.S.C. 802. Substance  misuse  is the  generic term  adopted  in
this guideline  to  describe any of the behaviors listed above.  
 
AG ¶ 25 sets forth the following condition that could raise security concerns and 
may be disqualifying in this case: 
(a)   any substance  misuse (see  above definition);  
(c)  illegal possession  of a  controlled  substance, including  cultivation,  
processing, manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession  of  
drug paraphernalia; and   
(f) any illegal drug use while granted access to classified information or 
holding a sensitive position. 
Applicant admitted purchasing and using marijuana in Period 1, while in college , 
and in Period 2, while working at his current employer and after being granted a security 
clearance. Marijuana is a controlled substance under federal law. These admissions and 
the other record evidence establish the disqualifying conditions set forth in AG ¶ 25(a) 
and 25(c). 
Under the authority of ISCR Case No. 22 -01661 at 4 (App. Bd. Sep. 21, 2023), 
Applicant held a sensitive position at the time s he used marijuana because his position 
with his employer required that he have national security eligibility for access to classified 
information, i.e., eligibility for a security clearance. In its decision, the Appeal Board ruled 
that the Directive defines “sensitive position” broadly and including positions that require 
“eligibility for access to classified information (i.e., a security clearance).” The Board also 
noted that the Directive’s definition o f a sensitive position does not require that “the 
occupant of the position has access to classified information.” (missing open quote mark) 
The  holding  in this Appeal Board decision  is inconsistent  with  the  conclusion  in  the  
Hearing  Office  decision  cited  by Applicant’s attorney in the  Answer and  in her closing   
argument at the  hearing, i.e., ISCR  Case  No. 23-01139  (Hear.  Off. Feb.  1, 2024).  The  
cited  decision  is inapposite,  as well as non-binding,  because  the  Administrative Judge  did  
not address  in her decision  the  possible  application  of AG ¶  25(f)  and  whether the  
applicant held  a  sensitive position  in light of his holding  a  security clearance.  Also,  the  
decision  does not  even  discuss the  applicability of the  Appeal Board’s prior decision  in  
ISCR Case No. 22-01661, supra.    
Applicant’s admissions as corroborated by t he record evidence established that 
Applicant used an illegal drug while holding a sensitive position. Accordingly, AG ¶ 25(f) 
applies. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
           
         
          
        
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
       
     
  
  
 
          
       
        
       
            
   
          
        
      
       
         
  
 
          
         
      
       
       
          
           
  
The evidence establishing AG ¶¶ 25 (a), 25(b), and 25 (f) shifts the burden to 
Applicant to mitigate the security concerns raised by his conduct. AG ¶ 26 of this guideline 
provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. I have considered all the 
mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 26 and conclude that the following two conditions have 
possible application to the facts of this case: 
(a) th e  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or happened  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur or does  not cast  doubt  
on  the  individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  judgment;  and  
(b) the  ind ividual acknowledges his or her drug  involvement and  substance  
misuse,  provides evidence  of  actions taken  to  overcome the  problem, and  
has established  a pattern of abstinence, including, but not limited  to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts;  
(2) changing  or avoiding  the  environment where drugs were
used; and  
 
(3) providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all 
drug involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that 
any future involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation of 
national security eligibility. 
In my analysis, I have taken administrative notice of the Security Executive Agent 
(SecEA) “Clarifying Guidance Concerning Marijuana for Individuals Eligible to Access 
Classified Information or Eligible to Hold a Sensitive Position,” dated December 21, 2021. 
(Guidance.) In her Guidance, the SecEA noted the increased number of states that have 
legalized or decriminalized the use of marijuana and issued the Guidance to “provide 
clarifying guidance.” She reaffirmed the previous SecEA’s 2014 memorandum regarding 
the importance of compliance with federal law on the illegality of the use of marijuana by 
holders of security clearances. She provided further clarification of federal marijuana 
policy writing that this policy remains relevant to security clearance adjudications “but [is] 
not determinative.” She noted that the adjudicative guidelines provided various 
opportunities for a clearance applicant to mitigate security concerns raised by his or her 
past use of marijuana. 
In applying AG ¶ 26(a) to the facts of this case, I conclude that Applicant’s illegal 
drug use was not so long ago , was not so in frequent, and did not occur under such 
circumstances that it is unlikely to recur . Moreover, this recent illegal drug use while 
holding a sensitive position casts significant doubt on his current reliability, 
trustworthiness, and judgment. His last use of an illegal drug while holding a sensitive 
position was just seven months before he submitted the 2023 Questionnaire seeking to 
upgrade his security clearance from Secret to Top Secret, and less than three years prior 
to the close of the record. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
       
        
         
         
             
         
         
     
  
 
      
        
        
          
          
          
          
 
         
          
       
      
       
    
           
               
 
     
         
       
              
         
         
            
    
      
 
 
           
   
 
Based upon his admissions, Applicant used marijuana for three and one-half years 
during Period 1 . Four and one -half y ears later, in December 2018, he began using 
marijuana again. He was fully aware that his actions were against company policy. In fact, 
he stopped using marijuana in his senior year as an undergraduate because he was 
aware of the employer’s drug policy from having worked there in the summer of 2013. He 
tried to justify , to himself and at the hearing , that his use was medically necessary to 
counter a side effect of a prescribed drug he took for ADD. He believed his occasional 
use for insomnia was not “a super big deal.” He also justified his behavior on his belief 
that some co-workers also used marijuana. 
Applicant admitted, however, that he never checked with a supervisor o r security 
official to determine whether using marijuana while he held a Secret securit y clearance 
was a violation of company policy if he was not assigned to a classified program . His 
decision to violate the company’s drug policy over a four-year period is, in fact, a big deal, 
and shows a lack of maturity and questionable judgment. The circumstances that caused 
him to resort to illegal drugs for his sleep concerns were not u nusual. Under the 
circumstances, I cannot conclude at this time that use of an illegal drug is unlikely to recur. 
One of Applicant’s justifications for using an illegal drug and violating his duty as a 
person occupying a sensitive position and holding a security clearance was that he was 
not the only one acting contrary to the Government’s requirements. This excuse raises 
the issue whether Applicant is sufficiently reliable and trustworthy to be compliant with 
other Government rules regarding classified information in the event he sees others 
violating such rules. His behavior also raises serious questions about his independence 
from the influence of others, his judgment, and his maturity. Overall, Applicant failed to 
establish mitigation under AG ¶ 26(a). 
Applicant has also not provided sufficient evidence under AG ¶ 26(b) to fully 
mitigate the security concerns raised by his recent illegal drug use. He provided a written 
statement of intent under AG ¶ 26(b)(3) to abstain from illegal drug use in the future, and 
he testified that he does not intend to use illegal drugs again. He stopped using marijuana 
because he no longer needed it for insomnia. Applicant’s primary motivation for changing 
his past illegal drug behavior was not that he now appreciates that using drugs violates 
federal law and th at compliance with the law is important in the context of the 
safeguarding nation al security. Under the circumstances of this case, Applicant’s 
evidence is inadequate to establish mitigation under AG ¶ 26(b). 
Paragraph 2  –  Guideline E, Personal Contact  
The security concerns relating to the guideline for personal conduct are set out in 
AG ¶ 15, which states: 
Conduct involving  questionable judgment, lack of candor,  dishonesty,  or  
unwillingness to  comply with  rules and  regulations can  raise  questions  
about an  individual's  reliability, trustworthiness and  ability to  protect  
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
 
 
 
        
         
           
        
        
           
            
           
  
  
 
        
    
      
   
 
         
      
      
        
      
     
   
  
 
       
         
      
 
         
        
classified  or sensitive  information.  Of  special interest is any  failure to  
cooperate  or provide  truthful and  candid answers during  national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes.  
AG ¶ 16 describes the following condition that may raise security concerns and 
potentially be disqualifying in this case. 
(a) deliberate  omission, concealment,  or falsification  of relevant facts from  
any personnel  security questionnaire, personal history statement,  or similar  
form  used  to  conduct investigations,  determine  employment qualifications,  
award  benefits or status, determine  national security eligibility or 
trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities.  
The record evidence is insufficient to prove that Applicant used marijuana during 
the period June 2014 to December 2018. Accordingly, the government has not met its 
burden of proof with respect to its allegation that Applicant deliberately falsified his 2017 
Questionnaire about drug use prior to December 2018. AG ¶ 16(a) is not established. In 
reaching this conclusion, I find that Applicant’s testimony about the timing of his drug use 
was credible and persuades me that the evidence suggesting that he use of marijuana 
began in June 2017 was merely a poorly worded response to the questions in the 2023 
Questionnaire. This conclusion obviates the need to consider the mitigating conditions of 
AG ¶ 17. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole -person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for national security eligibility by considering the totality of the 
applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should 
consider the nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coe rcion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant national security eligibility 
for a security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the above whole-person factors and the potentially disqualifying and 
mitigating conditions in light of all pertinent facts and circumstances surrounding this 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
  
            
          
          
          
       
      
            
     
    
         
   
 
 
        
    
 
     
 
       
 
      
 
        
 
 
            
      
  
                                                  
 
 
 
 
case. I credit Applicant’s honesty in self-reporting his past drug use knowing that it could 
affect his clearance eligibility . However, his drug use during Period 2 was a blatant 
violation of federal law, federal security clearance rules and regulations , and his 
company’s drug policy. While his extensive mitigation evidence speak s well of his 
character, his us e an illegal drug over a four -year period while holding a sensitive 
position seriously undercuts the mitigation value of that character evidence. Applicant’s 
lack of compliance with his repeated statements to the government over several years 
that he then intended to abstain from using marijuana in the future raises questions about 
the sincerity of his current stated intentions, as well as his maturity and judgment . 
Applicant has not, at this time, mitigated security concerns raised by his behavior. Overall, 
the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts as to Applicant’s present 
suitability for national security eligibility and a security clearance. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by ¶ E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  H:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a  through1.d:  Against Applicant 
Paragraph  2, Guideline E: FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  2.a: For Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant national security eligibility. 
Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
JOHN BAYARD GLENDON 
Administrative Judge 
12 