 
 
 
 
                                                              
                             
          
           
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
       
     
  
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
       
    
  
    
    
   
     
 
    
 
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-01417 
) 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: John Renehan, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
06/30/2025 
Decision 
Lokey Anderson, Darlene D., Administrative Judge: 
On October 2, 2023, Applicant submitted a security clearance application ( e-
QIP). (Government Exhibit 1.) On September 9, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence 
and Security Agency Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS) issued Applicant 
a Statement of Reasons (SOR), detailing security concerns under Guideline H, Drug 
Involvement and Substance Misuse; and Guideline J, Criminal Conduct. The action 
was taken under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information 
within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DoD Directive 5220.6, Defense 
Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as 
amended (Directive); and the Adjudicative Guidelines, effective within the Department of 
Defense after June 8, 2017. 
 
 
 
     
 
  
      
    
   
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
    
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
     
 
       
  
    
    
     
    
   
  
      
 
    
  
      
  
 
    
      
 
Applicant answered the SOR on October 15, 2024, and requested a hearing 
before an administrative judge. The case was assigned to me on April 10, 2025.  The 
Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a notice of hearing on April 15, 
2025, and the hearing was convened as scheduled on June 11, 2025.  The Government 
offered three exhibits, referred to as Government Exhibits 1 through 3, which were 
admitted without objection. The Applicant offered two exhibits, referred to as Applicant’s 
Exhibits A and B, which were admitted without objection.  Applicant testified on his own 
behalf.  DOHA received the transcript of the hearing (Tr.) on June 23, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 24 years old and single with no children.  He has a Bachelor’s 
degree in Mechanical Engineering.  He is employed by a defense contractor as a 
Mechanical Engineer.  He is seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection with 
his employment. 
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
The Government alleges that the Applicant has used controlled substances that 
cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner inconsistent with their 
intended purpose, which can raise questions about an individual’s reliability and 
trustworthiness. 
Applicant started using marijuana in high school in about August 2017. A friend 
introduced him to it.  He enjoyed the effects and he continued to smoke marijuana on a 
daily basis, from once, to two to three times daily, mainly at night.  This use continued 
through high school, and then throughout college on an intermittent basis.  He believes 
that in high school he may have used it about 300 times total.  In college, which 
Applicant characterized as a “party school,” he stated that he may have used it about 
200 times total.  Applicant also stated that he learned that marijuana was illegal under 
Federal law in 2019. He explained that although marijuana was legal in the state, it was 
not legal on his college campus because it was a public university that received federal 
funding.  He stated that he avoided trouble and did not use marijuana on the university 
campus. (Tr. pp. 29- 31, and Government Exhibits 1, 2, and 3.) 
Applicant also purchased marijuana from about August 2017 to August 2023. 
During high school, before he turned 21 years old, he would purchase marijuana from 
friends who had it.  In college, and after turning 21 years old, he would purchase it from 
the dispensaries.  At times, the dispensaries would have marijuana that Applicant felt 
was too strong, and he did not like it.  Applicant normally purchased about 1/8 ounce of 
marijuana, $40 worth, which would last him about one to two months.  (Tr. pp. 32- 35, 
and Government Exhibits 1, 2, and 3.) 
2 
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
    
 
   
   
   
   
 
      
  
  
    
   
 
 
      
   
   
 
                 
 
     
     
    
 
  
  
    
     
   
        
 
   
       
      
 
     
   
   
     
 
Applicant used other illegal drugs including cocaine, one to two times a month, 
from July 2022 to June 2023; mushrooms, one to two times a month from about 
September 2022 to about September 2023; the prescription medication Adderall, on two 
occasions, (that was not prescribed to him), from August 2022 to November 2022; and 
ecstasy, one time in June 2023.  (Tr. pp. 55-58, and Government Exhibits 1, 2, and 3.) 
After spring break, during his senior year of college, Applicant received a job 
offer from his current employer.  He explained that towards the end of his senior year of 
college, he stopped using marijuana altogether because he knew that he would be 
required to undergo a pre-employment drug test.  He needed to pass the test as part of 
the onboarding process to start employment.  Applicant stopped using marijuana until 
after his drug test, and then he started using it again.  It was during the onboarding 
process with his employer that he was made aware of their drug free policy.  (Tr. p. 41.) 
Applicant stated that after the drug test, he rarely used marijuana, but his use picked up 
again when he went to Amsterdam.  Applicant stated that he knew at this point that he 
should not use illegal drugs, and he did not want to use it daily, but he did not want to 
miss out on graduation celebrations.  (Tr. pp. 29- 43, and Government Exhibits 1, 2, and 
3.)  
After graduating from college, in June 2023, Applicant and five of his friends 
traveled throughout Europe, for a month, visiting many places including Amsterdam. 
During this vacation they went to many bars and nightclubs where Applicant used a 
variety of illegal drugs, including marijuana on a daily basis, and cocaine, mushrooms, 
and ecstasy.  (Tr. pp. 43-47, and Government Exhibits 1, 2, and 3.) 
Applicant started working for his current employer at the end of August 2023. 
Three weeks later, in September 2023, he used mushrooms.  He stated that he knew 
that he would have to stop using drugs before he started work.  (Tr. p. 43.)  Applicant 
explained that when he moved to the new city to start the job, he was not familiar with 
the area, and there were a lot of drugs around.  He stated that after using mushrooms, 
he had a wake- up call and realized that he had to stop his illegal drug use.  He also 
knew that he was in violation of his work -place policy, but he did not report this use to 
his Facility Security Officer.  He states that since then he has not used any illegal drugs 
and that he has been drug free for 1 year and 9 months.  (Tr. pp. 51- 57, and 
Government Exhibits 1, 2, and 3.) 
Applicant stated that he no longer wants to use illegal drugs and intends to 
abstain from any future use.  Most of his friends are drug users.  He has told them that 
he cannot use drugs anymore because of his job.  He is making a conscious effort to 
avoid drugs.  He now avoids certain locations where he knows people will be using 
drugs, like Techno Shows.  He also makes it clear to new friends that he does not do 
drugs.  He stated that since he stopped using marijuana, he has been physically more 
healthy.  He has lost 25 pounds from working out and watching his diet, and he is also 
saving money.  He has now moved into a house.  (Tr. pp. 51-68.) 
3 
 
 
 
 
    
    
    
 
    
   
 
 
  
 
        
  
     
 
   
  
 
    
 
 
     
 
 
  
       
   
  
            
 
  
      
 
    
  
 
      
   
 
 
   
      
    
   
Guideline J  –  Criminal Conduct   
The Government alleges that Applicant has engaged in criminal activity that 
creates doubt about a person’s judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness and calls into 
question a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations. 
Applicant’s use and purchases of marijuana, use of cocaine, use of mushrooms, 
and use of Adderall without a prescription, were against both state and Federal law 
while he was in high school.  After the age of 21, the state in which he resided made it 
legal to use marijuana for recreational purposes.  However, his use of cocaine, 
mushrooms, and Adderall remained illegal.  It is unclear whether his use of ecstasy 
which occurred in Europe was legally permitted, but common sense would dictate that it 
was illegal.  (Tr. pp. 54- 57, and Government Exhibits 1, 2, and 3.)  In any event, 
Applicant engaged in a pattern of criminal conduct involving the use and purchase of 
illegal drugs that shows poor judgment, unreliability, and untrustworthiness. 
Letters of recommendation from Applicant’s Manager, and the Chief Engineer, 
who both work closely with the Applicant, indicate that Applicant joined the team in July 
2023.  Collectively, they indicate that Applicant has shown a strong work ethic, 
commitment, and integrity.  He possesses a robust mechanical engineering ability and a 
keen attention to detail.  He has a strong moral compass and displays a deep sense of 
responsibility.  He is an excellent team player with a positive attitude.  His willingness to 
help others make him a pleasure to work with.  He has proven himself to be 
exceptionally trustworthy, handling proprietary data with the utmost care and 
confidentiality.  His commitment to protecting sensitive information, and exceptional 
technical skills make him an outstanding candidate for a security clearance. 
(Applicant’s Exhibits A and B.) It is noted that neither of these letters address 
Applicant’s illegal drug use history.  In response to questioning by Department Counsel, 
neither reference had any specific details about the extent of Applicant’s illegal drug 
use. (Tr. pp. 57- 59.) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The 
administrative judge’s over arching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and 
commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a), the entire process is a conscientious 
4 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
   
     
  
 
  
      
      
    
    
    
  
 
      
    
    
    
   
      
    
  
  
 
   
  
     
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
scrutiny of a number of variables known as the whole- person concept. The 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I 
have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical , and based on the 
evidence contained in the record. 
Directive ¶ E3.1.14, requires the Government to present evidence t hat 
establishes controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the 
“applicant is responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, 
extenuate, or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel, 
and has the ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable clearance 
decision.” 
A person who applies for access to classified information seeks to enter into a 
fiduciary relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or 
safeguard classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally 
permissible extrapolation as to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of 
classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline H;  Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Drug Involvement and 
Substance Misuse is set forth at AG ¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual's reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior 
5 
 
 
 
    
   
   
  
  
 
     
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
   
  
  
 
    
may lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person's ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any "controlled substance" 
as defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term 
adopted in this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
The guideline at AG ¶ 25 contains two conditions that could raise a security 
concern and may be disqualifying: 
(a) any substance misuse (see above definition);  an
 d   
(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation,  
pr
ocessing, manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession of  
drug paraphernalia.   
The g
uideline at AG ¶ 26 contains conditions that could mitigate security 
concerns. None of the conditions are applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or  happened  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur  or does not cast doubt  
on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;  
and  
(b) the individual acknowledges  hi s or her drug involvement  and  
substance misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this  
problem,  and has  established a pattern of  abstinence, including,  but not  
limited to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-us ing associates and contacts;   
(2) changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were  
us
ed; and  
(3) providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all  
dr
ug involvement  and  substance misuse, acknowledging that  
any future involvement or  misuse is  grounds for revocation  
of national security  eligibility.  
None of 
the mitigating factors demonstrate full mitigation.  Although Applicant 
went to college and obtained a degree, he was a regular/daily drug user, who 
associated with drug users and lived that lifestyle.  His history of illegal drug use and 
purchases from August 2017 to September 2023, involving marijuana, cocaine, 
mushrooms, Adderall, and ecstasy, with intermittent and daily use, over six -years, 
reflects poor judgment, unreliability, and untrustworthiness.  Applicant knew in 2019 that 
Federal law prohibits illegal drug use.  To get hired by a defense contractor, Applicant 
6 
 
 
 
 
   
     
  
 
  
       
    
    
 
 
   
   
        
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
   
    
    
 
 
 
deliberately stopped using marijuana to pass his employer’s drug test, and then started 
using it again.  He knew that he would have to stop using illegal drugs before starting 
work. Applicant also used mushrooms shortly after he was hired by the defense 
contractor, knowing that any illegal drug use is prohibited by the DoD.  Furthermore, he 
did not report this illegal drug use to his Facility Security Officer.  Applicant stated that 
he had an awakening after using mushrooms in September 2023, and he decided to 
stop using illegal drugs for good.  He states that he has been drug free for 1 year and 9 
months.  However, under these circumstances, given the extent of his illegal drug use; 
including the frequency and variety of drugs used; and the recency of the use which last 
occurred while he was working for a defense contractor; more time is needed to 
determine whether he will be able to maintain a drug- free lifestyle to convince the 
Government that he will not return to his old ways.  At this time, he has not shown a 
sufficient pattern and practice of good judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness 
necessary to be eligible for access to classified information. 
Guideline  J;  Criminal Conduct  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Criminal Conduct is set out in AG 
¶ 30: 
Criminal activity creates doubt about a person’s judgment, reliability, and 
trustworthiness. By its very nature, it calls into question a person’s ability 
or willingness to comply with laws, rules and regulations. 
AG ¶ 31 describes conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a) a pattern of  m
 inor offenses, any  one of which on its own would be  
unlikely to affect a  national security eligibility decision, but which in  
combination cast doubt on the individual’s judgment, reliability, or  
trustworthiness; and  
(b) evidence (including, but not limited to ,  a credible allegation, an 
admission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of  
whether the individual was formally charged, prosecuted, or convicted; 
and   
Applic
ant committed numerous violations of the law by using and purchasing the 
above-described illegal drugs beginning in high school with marijuana, and continuing to 
his last use of any illegal drug, mushrooms, which occurred in September 2023.  The 
aforementioned disqualifying conditions have been established. 
7 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
     
  
  
 
 
   
    
       
     
 
 
Four Criminal Conduct mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 32 are potentially 
applicable: 
(a) so much time has  el
 apsed since the criminal behavior happened, or it  
happened under such unusual circumstances, that it is unlikely  to recur  
and does not cast  doubt on the individual's reliability, trustworthiness, or  
good judgment;  
(b) the individual was pressured or coerced into committing the act and  
t
hose pressures are no longer present in the person’s life;  
(c) no reliable evidence to support that the individual committed the  
of
fense; and  
(d) there is evidence of successful rehabilitation; including, but not limited  
to,  t
he passage of time without recurrence of criminal activity, restitution,  
compliance with the terms of parole or  probation, job training or higher  
education,  good employment record,  or constructive community  
involvement.  
Appl
icant is making an effort to improve his lifestyle by quitting his illegal drug 
use.  He states that he has now been drug free for 1 year and 9 months.  However, his 
fairly recent and extensive history of illegal drug use and purchases establishes criminal 
conduct that creates doubt concerning his judgment, reliability , trustworthiness, and 
ability or willingness to abide by law, rules, and regulations.  None of the mitigating 
conditions establish full mitigation. 
Whole-Person  Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5)  the  extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of  
rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation  
for the conduct; (8) the potential for  pressure, coercion, exploitation,  or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
8 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
    
   
      
  
    
   
 
   
   
 
  
 
 
    
              
 
   
   
    
  
 
    
 
  
    
 
   
 
    
 
   
 
       
 
 
 
 
 
Under AG ¶ 2( c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a security 
clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guideline H, and Guideline J, in my whole- person analysis. To hold a security 
clearance is a privilege and not a right. While holding a security clearance one is 
expected to show honesty, responsibility, and good judgment at all times. Applicant has 
only recently stopped using illegal drugs and needs more time to show a sustained 
positive pattern of conduct and the level of maturity needed for access to classified 
information. 
At this time, he is not an individual with whom the Government can be confident 
to know that he will always follow rules and regulations and do the right thing, even 
when no one is looking.  Right now, he is not qualified for access to classified 
information, nor is it certain that sensitive information will be properly protected.  More 
time is needed to determine that his past pattern of poor judgment is finally over for 
good.  He may in the future be found to be eligible for access to classified information, 
but it will take continued work on his part to show that he can be drug- free and without 
criminal conduct for a significant period of time to establish security clearance eligibility. 
Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts as to 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance . For all these reasons, I 
conclude Applicant has failed to mitigate the Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse, 
and Criminal Conduct security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by ¶ E3.1.25 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  Guideline H:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 1.a.,  t
 hrough 1.f:   Agai
nst Applicant 
Paragraph 2,  Guideline  J:   AGAI
NST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  2 .a.   Agai
nst Applicant 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
        
    
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant national security eligibility 
for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Darlene Lokey Anderson 
Administrative Judge 
10 