 
 
  
 
  
   
           
  
 
 
  
  
     
  
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
   
      
  
  
  
    
 
  
 
  
  
   
    
______________ 
______________ 
       DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
    DEFENSE  OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS  
           
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-02094 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Lauren A. Shure, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
06/13/2025 
Decision 
HALE, Charles C., Administrative Judge: 
This case involves security concerns raised under Guideline F (Financial 
Considerations). Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on March 26, 2024. On 
December 30, 2024, the Department of Defense (DoD) sent her a Statement of Reasons 
(SOR) alleging security concerns under Guideline F, financial considerations. The DoD 
acted under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information 
within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DoD Directive 5220.6, Defense 
Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended 
(Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) promulgated in Security Executive Agent 
Directive 4, National Security Adjudicative Guidelines (December 10, 2016). 
Applicant answered the SOR on January 31, 2025, and requested a decision on 
the written record without a hearing. Department Counsel submitted the Government’s 
file of relevant material (FORM) on February 18, 2025. On February 20, 2025, a complete 
copy of the FORM was sent to Applicant. She received the FORM on February 28, 2025. 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
     
  
     
 
    
     
 
   
    
     
 
   
     
 
   
     
 
   
   
  
 
  
  
  
    
    
 
   
 
 
 
A response to the FORM was not received. The case was assigned to me on June 5,  
2025.   
The SOR and the Answer are the pleadings in the case. FORM Items 3 through 
10 are admitted into evidence without objection. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant admitted the sole allegation, SOR ¶ 1.a, that she filed Chapter 13 
bankruptcy in November 2024 and that the bankruptcy was ongoing as of the December 
30, 2024 SOR. She relies on the evidence submitted by the Government to support her 
the statement in her Answer: 
I admit. The last court hearing was January 9, 2025. I’m making all  
payments on time, taking directly  out of  my  paycheck.   
Applicant’s SCA was completed on March 26, 2024. She responded to 
Government interrogatories dated September 16, 2024. She filed Chapter 13 Voluntary 
Petition for bankruptcy on November 7, 2024. Her amended her Chapter 13 plan was 
admitted on December 20, 2024. The Bankruptcy Court signed the Order Confirming 
Chapter 13 Plan on January 13, 2025, approving $437 bi-weekly payments for 36 months. 
(Item 5.) There was no evidence of regular payments. (Item 5; Item 6.) 
Applicant’s summary of assets shows $54,383 in liabilities and she lists her debts 
as primarily consumer related on the form. On the assets and liabilities form she claimed 
an income of $4,010 and expenses of $3,064. She marked as part of the bankruptcy 
petition that she had received a briefing from an approved credit counseling agency within 
the 180 days before filing her bankruptcy petition and that she received a certificate of 
completion. The December 20, 2024 Chapter 13 plan proposed to pay $34,086 to the 
trustee. The holders of allowed nonpriority unsecured claims would receive the funds 
remaining, if any, after disbursements have been made to all other creditors provided for 
in the plan. (Item 5; Item 6; Item 7.) 
During Applicant’s security clearance interview she explained the various reasons 
for why she got behind her debts. She cited COVID, when her employer shut down for 
two or three months. She explained she is a single parent who receives no support from 
the child’s father who has been incarcerated since 2014. She noted she took a reduction 
in pay in order to secure a position on a longer -term contract for job security. She 
referenced a 2016 house fire. Her Statement of Financial Affairs in her bankruptcy 
paperwork shows her income dropping from $58,969 in 2022, to $41,893 in 2023, and to 
$34,806 in 2024. She explained to the investigator that she was reluctant to file for 
bankruptcy because she was worried about maintaining her security clearance. She tried 
working with a debt consolidation company in early 2024 for two or three months before 
recognizing this was not the right solution for her. (Item 5; Item 10.) 
2 
 
 
 
      
  
  
    
    
 
      
 
 
   
   
  
  
   
    
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
     
 
 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it i s clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
decision. An administrative judge must consider all available and reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865 
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant 
has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have 
established for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 15- 01253 at 3 
(App. Bd. Apr. 20, 2016). 
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial  
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of  proving a mitigating condition,  
and the burden of disproving it  never shifts to the Government.  See  ISCR Case No.  02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep.  22,  2005).   
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
  
   
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
    
 
   
      
  
  
     
  
 
     
 
 
 
 
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent  
with the national interest to grant or continue  his security clearance.” ISCR Case No.  01-
20700 at  3 (App. Bd.  Dec. 19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  Egan, 484 U.S. at 531.   
Analysis  
Guideline F: Financial Considerations  
The security concern relating to the guideline for financial considerations is set out 
in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
Affluence that cannot be explained by known sources of income is also a 
security concern insofar as it may result from criminal activity, including 
espionage. 
This concern is broader than the possibility that an individual might knowingly 
compromise classified information in order to raise money. It encompasses concerns 
about an individual’s self-control, judgment, and other qualities essential to protecting 
classified information. An individual who is financially irresponsible may also be 
irresponsible, unconcerned, or negligent in handl ing and safeguarding classified 
information. See ISCR Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012) 
Applicant’s admissions and the evidence in the FORM establish two disqualifying 
conditions under this guideline: AG ¶ 19(a): inability to satisfy debts; and AG ¶ 19(c): a 
history of not meeting financial obligations. 
The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 are potentially applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
und
er such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good judgment;  
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial  pr oblem were largely beyond  
the person’s control  (e.g., loss of employment, a business  downturn,  
unexpected medical emergency, or a death, divorce or separation, clear  
4 
 
 
 
           (c) the individual has received or is receiving financial counseling for the  
problem from  a legitimate and credible source, such as a non- profit credit  
counseling service,  and there are clear indications that the problem is being  
resolved or  is  under control; and  
 
 
   
    
  
    
   
   
  
 
     
  
    
  
   
 
    
 
 
    
  
  
     
  
     
  
     
 
 
      
    
    
      
 
      
 
    
victimization by  predatory lending practices, or identity theft),  and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;   
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- f aith effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.  
AG 
¶¶ 20(a) and 20(d) do not fully apply. Applicant’s financial delinquencies are 
ongoing and unresolved. She recently petitioned to discharge in bankruptcy over $53,000 
in debt. It is well-established that the timing of debt payments is a relevant consideration 
for a judge in deciding whether an applicant has acted in a reasonable and responsible 
manner in addressing financial problems. To receive full credit under Mitigating Condition 
AG ¶ 20(d), an applicant must initiate and adhere “to a good faith effort to repay overdue 
creditors or otherwise resolve debts.” Her recent action after the security clearance 
application process has been initiated is insufficient for the application of this mitigating 
condition. See ISCR Case No. 08-06058 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 21, 2009) and ISCR Case 
No. 16-01211 (App. Bd. May 30, 2018) (citing ISCR Case No. 15 -03208 at 5 (App. Bd. 
Mar. 7, 2017)). There is insufficient evidence to conclude that Applicant is adhering to a 
good-faith effort to repay overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts. She did not 
establish that she has made a good-faith effort to pay or resolve her debts. 
Applicant attributes her debts to unemployment, lack of support for her child from 
the child’s father, and underemployment. The first prong of AG ¶ 20(b) therefore applies. 
For full consideration under AG ¶ 20(b), however, Applicant must establish that she acted 
responsibly under the circumstances. She has not done so. She completed her SCA in 
March 2024. She started working with the debt relief company in early 2024. She filed for 
bankruptcy in December 2024. In a Guideline F case, the Appeal Board has held that 
until an applicant has a “meaningful financial track record it cannot be said as a matter of 
law that [s]he has initiated a good- faith effort to repay overdue creditors or otherwise 
resolve debts.” ISCR Case No. 05-01920 at 5 (App. Bd. Mar. 1, 2007). The concept of 
“‘meaningful track record’ necessarily includes evidence of actual debt reduction through 
payment of debts.” Id. Payment agreements, such as a Chapter 13 bankruptcy petition, 
are similar to promises to pay in the future, which are “not a substitute for a track record 
of paying debts in a timely manner and otherwise acting in a financially responsible 
manner.” See ISCR Case No. 19-01599 at 3 (App. Bd. Jan. 15, 2020). Applicant did not 
provide sufficient evidence that she acted responsibly under the circumstances to resolve 
her debts. She did not establish a track record of making payments into her Chapter 13 
bankruptcy plan. AG ¶ 20(b) does not fully apply. 
As part of the bankruptcy process , Applicant completed the required credit 
counseling. The first prong of AG ¶ 20(c) therefore applies. However, her bankruptcy 
petition is recent, and she did not establish she was making the payments. She failed to 
5 
 
 
 
 
   
     
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
   
   
    
    
   
 
   
   
   
 
   
   
   
 
   
  
     
  
establish that  there are clear indications  that the problem is  being  resolved or is  under  
control.  AG ¶  20(c) does not fully  apply.  
Whole-Person Concept  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall common- sense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. In applying the whole-
person concept, an administrative judge must evaluate an applicant’s eligibility for a 
security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct and all relevant 
circumstances. An administrative judge should consider the nine adjudicative process 
factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.   
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guideline F in my whole -person analysis. While Applicant’s financial delinquencies can 
be attributable to circumstances beyond her control as evidenced by her decreasing 
annual income, they remain largely unresolved. Because Applicant requested a 
determination on the record without a hearing, I had no opportunity to evaluate h er 
credibility and sincerity based on demeanor. See ISCR Case No. 01-12350 at 3-4 (App. 
Bd. Jul. 23, 2003).  Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts as 
to Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. 
This decision should not be construed as a determination that Applicant cannot or 
will not attain the state of true reform and rehabilitation necessary to be eligible for a 
security clearance. The determination of an individual’s eligibility and suitability for a 
security clearance is not a once in a lifetime occurrence, but is based on applying the 
factors, both disqualifying and mitigating, to the evidence presented. Under Applicant’s 
current circumstances, a clearance is not warranted. In the future, she may well 
demonstrate persuasive evidence of her security worthiness. 
After weighing the disqualifying and mitigating conditions under Guideline F and 
evaluating all the evidence in the context of the whole person, I conclude Applicant has 
not mitigated the security concerns raised by her delinquent debts. 
6 
 
 
 
   
 
   
   
       
   
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Formal Findings  
I make the following formal findings on the allegations in the SOR: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline F (Financial Considerations):  AGAINST APPLICANT 
S
ubparagraph 1.a:   Against Applicant 
Conclusion  
In l
ight of all of the circumstances, it is not clearly consistent with the interests of 
national security to grant Applicant a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified 
information is denied. 
Charles C. Hale 
Administrative Judge 
7 