 
 
                                                              
                         
          
           
             
 
 
    
  
        
      
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
      
  
      
 
        
        
        
      
     
    
    
  
 
         
        
     
             
     
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00896 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: George A. Hawkins, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
03/06/2025 
Decision 
COACHER, Robert E., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to mitigate the financial considerations security concerns. Eligibility 
for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
On July 24 , 2024 , the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA) issued Applicant a Statement of Reasons 
(SOR) detailing security concerns under Guideline F (financial considerations). The 
DCSA acted under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information 
within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of Defense (DOD) 
Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program 
(January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) 
implemented by the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
On August 12, 2024, Applicant answered the SOR and elected to have his case 
decided on the written record in lieu of a hearing. Department Counsel prepared the 
Government’s File of Relevant Material (FORM), which was sent to Applicant on October 
8, 2024. The evidence included in the FORM is identified as Items 3 -6 (Items 1 and 2 
include pleadings and transmittal information). The FORM was received by Applicant on 
 
 
 
     
 
  
 
 
             
      
           
           
 
 
       
       
      
        
     
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
November 27, 2024 . Applicant was given an opportunity to file objections and submit 
material in refutation, extenuation, or mitigation. Applicant did not submit any response. 
The case was assigned to me on February 7, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 47 years old. He is seeking a position with a government contractor. 
He is married, but currently separated, and has no children. He served in the U.S. Navy 
from 1996 until 2018, when he retired with an honorable discharge. He receives disability 
payments from the Department of Veterans Affairs. He holds a bachelor’s degree. (AE 2, 
3) 
The SOR alleged Applicant owed five delinquent accounts (credit cards and a 
residual car loan after repossession), totaling approximately $33,933. (¶¶ 1.a-1.e) In his 
SOR answer, Applicant admitted all the debts. He also admitted the debts in his March 
2024 answers to interrogatories . The debts are further established as reflected in credit 
reports from September 2023 and July 2024. (Items 4-6; SOR answer) 
The status of the SOR debts is as follows: 
SOR ¶  1.a-$21,108.  This is a delinquent credit card. Applicant claims he  
accumulated  this debt  during  and  after the  pandemic because  of his  multiple  relocations.  
He indicated  in  his  answers to  interrogatories in  March 2024,  he  would start  making  
payments toward  all  his debts in August 2024.  He offered  no evidence  of payment, or of  
setting up a  plan  with the creditor.  This debt is unresolved. (Items 2,  4-6)  
SOR ¶  1.b-$364.  This  is a delinquent credit card. Applicant  claims he  accumulated  
this debt during  his separation  and  his relocations during  the  pandemic.  He indicated  in  
his answers to  interrogatories in March  2024, he  would start  making  payments  toward  all  
his debts in August 2024.  He offered  no  evidence  of payment,  or of setting  up  a  plan  with  
the creditor. This debt is unresolved. (Items 2, 4-6)  
SOR ¶  1.c-$3,149.  This is a delinquent  credit card. Applicant claims he  
accumulated  this debt during  his separation  and  his relocations during  the  pandemic. He  
indicated  in  his answers to  interrogatories  in March 2024, he  would start making  
payments toward  all  his debts in August 2024. He offered  no evidence  of payment, or of  
setting up a  plan with the creditor. This debt is unresolved. (Items 2, 4-6)  
SOR ¶  1.d-$1,811.  This is  a  delinquent  credit card. Applicant claims he  
accumulated  this debt during  his separation  and  his relocations during  the  pandemic. He  
indicated  in  his answers to  interrogatories  in March 2024, he  would start making  
payments toward  all  his debts in August 2024. He offered  no evidence  of payment, or of  
setting up a  plan with the creditor. This debt is unresolved. (Items 2, 4-6)  
SOR ¶  1.e-$7,501.  This is an  automobile  loan  for a  repossessed  car. Applicant  
admitted  this car was in  his name  but  claimed  it  belonged  to  his estranged  wife.  She  failed  
2 
 
 
 
            
       
            
 
 
        
      
 
 
 
 
     
        
      
         
   
 
          
      
         
        
    
       
         
 
 
      
    
   
 
       
      
       
      
      
  
          
       
    
              
    
      
         
 
 
to make the payments and the car was repossessed. He indicated in his answers to 
interrogatories in March 2024, he would start making payments toward all his debts in 
August 2024. He offered no evidence of payment, or of setting up a plan with the creditor. 
This debt is unresolved. (Items 2, 4-6) 
Applicant’s financial worksheet that he completed in March 2024 reflects a net 
monthly income of approximately $8,000 and total monthly expenses and debt payments 
of approximately $6,500, leaving a monthly remainder of approximately $1,500. There is 
no evidence of financial counseling. (Item 4, p.8) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as th e 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to sensitive information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
sensitive information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard sensitive informat ion. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of sensitive information. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
     
   
            
    
      
          
      
     
    
        
       
  
 
 
     
    
 
 
 
     
    
   
 
      
           
  
 
Section  7  of EO 10865  provides that adverse  decisions shall  be  “in  terms of  the  
national interest and  shall  in no  sense  be  a  determination  as to  the  loyalty of the  applicant  
concerned.” See  also  EO 12968, Section  3.1(b) (listing  multiple  prerequisites for access  
to classified or sensitive information).  
Analysis  
Guideline F, Financial Considerations  
AG ¶ 18 expresses the security concerns for financial considerations: 
Failure to live within one's means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
Affluence that cannot be explained by known sources of income is also a 
security concern insofar as it may r esult from criminal activity, including 
espionage. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns. I have 
considered all of them under AG ¶ 19 and the following potentially apply: 
(a) inability to satisfy debts;  and  
(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations.  
Applicant has a history of financial difficulties. He incurred five delinquent debts 
totaling approximately $ 33,900. Applicant’s admissions and credit reports establish the 
debts. I find both disqualifying conditions are raised. 
The guideline also includes conditions that could mitigate security concerns arising 
from financial difficulties. I have considered all the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 
and the following potentially apply: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or occurred  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur and  does not  cast doubt  
on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;   
(b) the  conditions  that resulted  in the  financial problem  were  largely  beyond  
the  person's control  (e.g.,  loss of  employment,  a  business downturn,  
unexpected  medical emergency,  a  death,  divorce  or separation, clear  
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
           
        
         
  
 
          
    
    
 
 
         
      
       
   
 
         
      
      
        
      
     
   
  
 
       
   
          
 
        
        
  
 
victimization  by predatory lending  practices, or identity  theft), and  the  
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
(c)  the  individual has received  or is receiving  financial counseling  for the  
problem  from  a  legitimate  and  credible  source,  such  as  a  non-profit  credit  
counseling  service, and  there are clear indications that the  problem  is being  
resolved  or is under control;  and  
(d) the  individual initiated  and  is adhering  to  a  good-faith  effort to  repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.   
Applicant’s debts remain unresolved and are therefore recent. He did not provide 
sufficient evidence to show that his financial problems are unlikely to recur. AG ¶ 20(a) 
does not apply. While the pandemic and separation from his wife were circumstances 
beyond his control, he failed to present evidence that he took any responsible action to 
address his debts. AG ¶ 20(b) does apply. 
There is no evidence of financial counseling and no evidence that his financial 
conditions are under control. He has not shown a good -faith effort to address his debts. 
AG ¶¶ 20(c) and 20(d) do not apply. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under t he whole-person concept, t he administrative j udge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all t he circumstances. The administrative judge should consider t he nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of t he conduct; (2) t he 
circumstances surrounding t he conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) t he frequency and recency of t he conduct; (4) t he 
individual’s age and maturity at t he time of t he conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) t he 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), t he ultimate determination of w hether to grant eligibility for a security 
clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guideline and the whole-person concept. 
I considered t he potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of t he 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. Applicant has not established a track 
record of financial responsibility. 
5 
 
 
 
         
     
         
  
 
 
        
     
 
     
  
       
   
 
        
          
   
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts as to Applicant’s 
eligibility and suitability for a security clearance . For all t hese reasons, I conclude 
Applicant failed to mitigate t he security concerns arising under Guideline F, financial 
considerations. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  F:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.e:  Against Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not clearly 
consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security clearance. 
Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Robert E. Coacher 
Administrative Judge 
6 