 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                               
    DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
   DEFENSE  OFFICE OF HEARINGS  AND APPEALS           
          
             
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
           
In  the  matter of:  )  
 )  
 ____________________                     )          ISCR Case  No. 24-01103  
  )  
Applicant for Security Clearance  )  
Appearances  
For Government: Sakeena Farhath, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
01/08/2025 
   Decision  
                                                             
 
 
  
 
            
      
  
 
 
       
      
        
         
          
          
      
     
        
    
       
        
     
 
__________ 
__________ 
WESLEY, ROGER C., Administrative Judge 
Based upon a review of the case file, pleadings, and exhibits, Applicant did not 
mitigate financial consideration concerns. Eligibility f or access to classified information 
or to hold a sensitive position is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On August 27, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS) issued a statement of reasons (SOR) 
to Applicant detailing reasons why under the financial considerations guideline the 
DCSA CAS could not mak e the preliminary affirmative determination of eligibility for 
granting a security clearance, and recommended referral to an administrative judge to 
determine whether a security clearance should be granted, continued, denied, or 
revoked. The action was taken under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified I nformation within Industry (February 20, 1960 ); Department of Defense 
(DoD) Directive 5220.6 Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
Program, (January 2, 1992) (Directive); and Security Executive Agent Directive 4, 
establishing in Appendix A the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for 
Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a 
Sensitive Position (AGs), effective June 8, 2017. 
1 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
           
          
          
         
       
  
 
      
      
           
         
   
 
         
           
            
         
          
            
             
  
 
 
    
       
   
    
 
         
            
          
           
       
        
    
        
  
 
 
      
        
            
        
Applicant responded to the SOR on September 19, 2024, and requested that his 
case be resolved on the written record without a hearing . Applicant received the FORM 
on October 31, 2 024, and did not r espond to the FORM with any post-FORM 
submissions. This case was assigned to me on December 23, 2024. The Government’s 
case consisted of five exhibits and were admitted without objection as Items 1-5. 
Summary of Pleadings  
Under Guideline F, Applicant allegedly failed to file his federal and state income 
tax returns as required for tax years 2013 through 2023. Allegedly, the Internal Revenue 
Service (IRS) filed substitute returns on his behalf for tax years 2014 and 2018 through 
2021, but the remaining tax returns remain unfiled, and Applicant allegedly owes 
approximately $123,416 in back taxes, interest, and penalties. 
In Applicant’s initial response to the SOR, he admitted each of the allegations 
with explanations and clarifications. He claimed he is currently in the process of 
engaging a tax attorney through a tax relief company to file his tax returns for the years 
in issue. He also claimed to be in the process of negotiating a payment plan with the 
respective tax authorities within the ensuing 30 to 60 days. (Item 2) In a follow -up 
response to the SOR, Applicant claimed that he filed his outstanding tax returns with 
both the IRS and state revenue department of his state of residence. He provided no 
documentary support to corroborate his claims. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 71-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security 
clearance. Allegations covered in the SOR and admitted by Applicant are incorporated 
and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow. 
Background  
Applicant married in July 1980 and has two adult children from his marriage. 
(Items 3-4) He earned a bachelor’s degree in June 1975 and a master’s degree in May 
1977 from the same respected university. (Item s 3-4) He earned another master’s 
degree in June 1988 from another respected university. Applicant reported no military 
service. ( Items 3-4) Since March 2023, Applicant has been employed by h is current 
employer as a business development lead. (Item 3) Previously, he worked for other 
employers in various jobs. (items 3 -4) He reported brief periods of unemployment 
between November 2016 and March 2023. (Items 3 -4) Applicant has held a security 
clearance since June 2003. (Items 3-4) 
Applicant’s finances   
Tax records document that Applicant did not file his federal and state income tax 
returns, as required, for tax years 201 3 through 2023 . (GEs 3-5) Applicant provided no 
documentation of steps he has taken to file his tax returns for the years in issue. He 
attributed his tax filing failures to a lack of sufficient funds to satisfy owed taxes for the 
2 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
      
      
     
    
 
       
      
    
      
       
      
   
 
 
 
        
               
         
         
          
         
          
      
 
       
        
     
           
       
      
    
 
      
       
      
     
 
 
tax years in issue. (items 3-4) Tax records  confirm  that the  IRS  filed  substitute  tax  
returns on  Applicant’s  behalf for tax years 2014  and  2018  through  2021.  Applicant’s 
remaining  federal tax returns for tax years 2015-2017  and  his state  tax  returns for the  
years in issue  remain unfiled  and  unresolved  according  to  reported  tax records  (Item  5). 
Applicant’s claims  that  he  has  since  filed  his federal and  state  income  tax  returns for tax  
years 2014, 2020, and  2021  are neither documented  nor corroborated  by other reliable  
means.(Items 2 and  5)  
Additionally, Applicant remains indebted to the federal government for delinquent 
taxes in the approximate amount of $123,416. (Items 3 -4) And, he remains indebted to 
his state of residence for delinquent taxes in the amount of $27,799 . (Items 3 -5) 
Applicant provided no documentation to corroborate his assurances. 
Applicant reported household income of around $300,000 and provided no 
detailed explanations of why he could not afford to pay his taxes. (Item 4) His reported 
cash shortfalls are not explained with sufficient specificity to support his claims of 
inability to meet his tax -filing and payment obligations. With the pre -tax annual income 
available to him, he could be reasonably expected to not only file his federal and state 
tax returns, as required, for the years in issue, but to set aside enough funds to ensure 
his ability to meet his tax payment obligations when they came due. 
Policies
By virtue of the jurisprudential principles recognized by t he U.S. Supreme Court 
in Department of the Navy v. Egan , 484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988 ), “no one has a ‘right’ to a 
security clearance.” As Commander in Chief, “the President has the authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information. ” Id. at 527. 
Eligibility for access to classified information may only be granted “upon a finding that it 
is clearly consistent with the national interest to do so. ” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge ’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial , and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The AGs list guidelines to be considered by judges in the decision -making 
process covering DOHA cases. These guideline s take into account factors that could 
create a potential conflict of interest for the individual applicant, as well as 
considerations that could affect the individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified information. 
3 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
        
           
      
     
           
    
 
 
 
          
 
 
 
 
                      
These guidelines include conditions that could raise a security concern and may 
be disqualifying (disqualifying conditions), if any, and all of the conditions that could 
mitigate security concerns, if any. These guidelines must be con sidered before deciding 
whether or not a security clearance should be granted, continued, or denied. Although, 
the guidelines do not require judges to place exclusive reliance on the enumerated 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in the guidelines in arriving at a decision. 
In  addition  to  the  relevant AGs,  judges must take  into  account  the  pertinent  
considerations for assessing  extenuation  and  mitigation  set forth  in  ¶ 2(a) of the  AGs,  
which  are intended  to  assist the  judges in  reaching  a  fair  and  impartial, commonsense  
decision  based  on  a  careful consideration  of  the  pertinent guidelines within the  context  
of the whole person. The adjudicative process is designed to  examine a sufficient period  
of an   applicant’s  life  to  enable  predictive  judgments  to  be  made  about  whether  the  
applicant is an acceptable security risk.  
When  evaluating  an  applicant’s conduct, the  relevant  guidelines are to  be  
considered  together with  the  following  ¶  2(d) factors:  (1) the  nature, extent,  and  
seriousness of the  conduct; (2) the  circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  
knowledgeable participation; (3)  the  frequency and  recency of  the  conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to   which  
participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  and  other 
permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  of the  conduct;  (8) the  potential for  
pressure, coercion,  exploitation, or duress;  and  (9) the  likelihood  of continuation  or  
recurrence.  
Viewing the issues raised and evidence as a whole, the following individual 
guidelines are pertinent herein: 
Financial Considerations  
The  Concern:  Failure  or inability to  live  within one’s means, satisfy debts 
and  meet  financial obligations  may indicate  poor self-control,  lack of  
judgment,  or unwillingness to  abide  by rules or regulations,  all  of  which  
can  raise  questions  about  an  individual’s reliability, trustworthiness and  
ability to  protect  classified  or sensitive information.  Financial distress can  
also be  caused  or exacerbated  by, and  thus can  be  a  possible  indicator of  
other issues of personnel security concern such  as  excessive  gambling,  
mental health  conditions, substance  misuse, or alcohol abuse  or 
dependence. An  individual who  is financially  overextended  is at greater  
risk of having  to  engage  in illegal acts or otherwise questionable acts to  
generate  funds.  .  .  .   AG ¶  18.   
  Burdens of Proof  
 
         
   
 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. 
4 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
     
     
       
     
             
           
  
 
     
     
         
          
      
          
            
   
    
 
 
      
      
       
    
 
 
       
           
         
      
   
 
 
Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk the applicant 
may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. Such decisions 
entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation a bout potential, rather than 
actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Clearance decisions must be “in 
terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty 
of the applicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 § 7. See also Exec. Or. 12968 (Aug. 
2, 1995), § 3.1. 
Initially, the  Government must establish, by  substantial evidence,  conditions in  
the  personal  or professional history of  the  applicant  that  may  disqualify the  applicant  
from  being  eligible  for  access to  classified  information.  The  Government has  the  burden  
of establishing  controverted  facts alleged  in  the  SOR.  See  Egan, 484  U.S. at 531.   
“Substantial evidence”  is “more  than  a  scintilla  but less  than  a  preponderance.”   See  v.  
Washington  Metro. Area  Transit Auth., 36  F.3d  375, 380  (4th  Cir. 1994). The  guidelines  
presume  a  nexus or rational connection  between  proven  conduct under any of the  
criteria  listed  therein and  an  applicant’s  security suitability.  See  ISCR Case  No. 95-0611  
at 2 (App. Bd. May 2, 1996).  
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition by substantial 
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it 
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue his [or her] security 
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01 -20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). The burden of 
disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the Government. See ISCR Case No. 
02-31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, 
if they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; see AG ¶ 2(b).  
Analysis  
Security concerns are raised over Applicant’s failure to timely file his federal and 
state income tax returns for tax years 2013 through 2023, as required. His multiple tax-
filing lapses raise trust, reliability, and judgment concerns about his current and future 
ability to manage his finances safely and responsibly. 
Financial concerns  
Applicant’s multiple federal and state income tax-filing lapses for tax years 201 3-
2023 warrant the application of one of the disqualifying conditions (DC) of the fin ancial 
consideration guidelines. DC ¶ 19(f), “failure to file or fraudulently filing annual Federal, 
state, or local income tax returns or failure to pay annual Federal, state, or local income 
tax as required,” apply to Applicant’s situation. 
Applicant’s admitted   tax-filing  failures require  no  independent proof to  
substantiate  them. See  Directive 5220.6  at E3.1.1.14; McCormick on  Evidence  §  262  
(6th  ed. 2006).  His  admitted  tax-filing  failures are  fully documented  and  create  judgment  
5 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
       
 
 
        
        
       
     
    
 
 
 
      
      
         
       
      
         
  
 
    
      
         
     
        
        
            
 
  
 
      
       
         
       
           
  
  
 
issues over the management of h is finances. See ISCR Case No. 03 -01059 (App. Bd. 
Sept. 24, 2004). 
Financial stability in a person cleared to protect classified information is required 
precisely to inspire trust and confidence in the holder of a security clearance that 
entitles the person to access classified information. While the principal concern of a 
security clearance holder’s demonstrated difficulties is vulnerability to coercion and 
influence, judgment and trust concerns are implicit in cases involving delinquent debts. 
Historically, the  timing  of addressing  and  resolving  Applicant’s tax-filing  lapses,   
are critical to  an  assessment of an  applicant’s trustworthiness, reliability, and   good  
judgment in  following  rules and  guidelines  necessary for those  seeking  access  to  
classified  information  or to holding a  sensitive  position.  See  ISCR  Case  No. 14-06808  at  
3  (App. Bd. Nov.  23. 2016); ISCR  Case  No. 14-01894  at 5  (App.  Bd. Aug.  18, 2015);  
ISCR  Case  No. 14-00221  at  2-5  (App.  Bd. June  29, 2016);  and  ISCR  Case  No. 01-
05340 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 5, 2002).  
Without any documented evidence of Applicant’s timely resolving his federal and 
state tax -filing failures , none of the potentially available mitigating conditions are 
available to him. In the past, the Appeal Board has imposed evidentiary burdens on 
applicants to provide documentation corroborating actions taken to resolve financial 
problems, whether the issues relate to tax-filing lapses or delinquent taxes and other 
accounts. See ISCR Case No. 19 -02593 at 4 -5 (App. Bd. Oct. 18, 2021); ISCR Case 
No. 19-01599 at 3 (App. Bd. Jan. 20, 2020). 
Applicant’s expressed assurances of his filing his tax returns for tax years 2014, 
2020, and 2021 and commitments to address ing any owed taxes, while encouraging, 
lack the needed documentation to corroborate his assurances and atone for his past 
tax-filing failures. Expressed financial commitments without proper documentation 
represent no more than promises to resolve his still outstanding tax-filing failures and 
are not viable substitutes for a track record of filing income tax returns in a timely 
manner and otherwise acting in a responsible way. See ISCR Case No. 17 -04110 at 4 
(App. Bd. Sept. 26, 2019). 
Whole-person assessment  
Whole-person assessment of Applicant’s clearance eligibility requires 
consideration of whether his history of tax filing failures and owed delinquent federal 
and state taxes is fully compatible with minimum standards for holding a security 
clearance. While Applicant is entitled to credit for h is work in the defense industry, h is 
efforts are not enough at this time to overcome his repeated failures or inability to timely 
file his federal and state income tax returns. Overall trustworthiness, reliability, and good 
judgment have not been established. 
Based  on  a  consideration  of all  of  the  facts  and  circumstances  considered  in this  
case,  it is too  soon  to  make  safe  predictions that Applicant will  be  able to  undertake  
documented  good-faith  efforts to  mitigate  the  Government’s financial concerns  within  
6 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
          
        
       
         
     
        
  
 
 
        
            
 
 
 
                                  
                                                                                                                      
                                                            
the foreseeable future. More time is needed for h im to establish the requisite levels of 
stability with h is finances to establish h is overall eligibility for holding a security 
clearance. I have carefully applied the law, as set forth in Department of Navy v. Egan, 
484 U.S. 518 (1988) , Exec. Or. 10865 , the Directive, and the AGs , to the facts and 
circumstances in the context of the whole person . I conclude financial considerations 
security concerns are not mitigated. E ligibility for access to classified information is 
denied. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Guideline  F  (FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS): AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a-1.b:  Against Applicant 
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance.  Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
  Conclusion 
 
            
        
   
 
 
 
 
 
__________________________ 
Roger C. Wesley 
Administrative Judge 
7 