 
 
 
                                                              
                         
          
           
             
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
     
      
 
   
       
    
   
  
    
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR Case No.  24-01844  
 )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance  )  
 
Appearances  
For Government: George A. Hawkins, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
07/29/2025 
Decision 
LAFAYE, Gatha, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to provide sufficient evidence to mitigate security concerns raised 
under Guideline H ( drug involvement and substance misuse). Eligibility for access to 
classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on November 3, 2023. 
On December 11, 2024, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) alleging security concerns under Guideline H. Applicant answered the 
SOR on January 20, 2025 (Answer) and elected to have his case decided on the written 
record in lieu of a hearing. The case was assigned to me on June 6, 2025. 
Department Counsel submitted the Government’s written case on January 30, 
2025, with Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through GE 4. A copy of the file of relevant 
material (FORM) was sent to Applicant, who was given an opportunity to file objections 
and submit evidence to refute, extenuate, or mitigate the Government’s case. Applicant 
received the FORM on February 28, 2025, and submitted a response, which I labeled as 
Applicant’s Exhibit (AE) A and admitted in evidence without objection. GE 1 and GE 2 
 
 
 
 
    
      
 
          
   
  
 
     
     
   
      
 
        
     
     
      
     
     
     
      
     
    
    
    
 
     
     
        
      
    
      
    
     
   
 
      
    
    
      
     
   
   
   
 
 
(the SOR and Answer, respectively) already part of the administrative record and need 
not be admitted. GE 3 and GE 4 are admitted in evidence without objection. 
Findings of Fact  
In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted all allegations, SOR ¶¶ 1.a – 1.k. His 
admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact. After thorough review of the evidence, 
I make the following additional finding of facts. 
Applicant is 31 years old. He enrolled in a small college from September 2012 
through June 2014 but did not complete a degree. He enrolled in a major university from 
September 2014 and completed his bachelor’s and master’s degrees in June 2018, and 
April 2020, respectively. He has never married and has no children. (GE 3, 4) 
Applicant has worked as a lead technologist for a defense contractor since October 
2023. His position requires a security clearance, and he completed his first SCA in 
November 2023. In Section 23 of the SCA, he admitted to using, purchasing, selling, and 
in some instances, cultivating various federally illegal drugs generally between 2014 and 
2023, discussed more fully below. Applicant also disclosed he was diagnosed with bipolar 
mood disorder in 2022 after he experienced a manic episode about two years earlier. He 
is actively participating in treatment for the condition and remains under the care of his 
treating psychiatrist, Dr. K. He voluntarily sought mental health counseling and treatment 
with Dr. K in December 2021 and has remained under her care since then. He confirmed 
in his statement to investigators that he did not seek Dr. K’s assistance for his illegal drug 
use. Guideline I (psychological conditions) is not alleged as a security concern in the 
SOR. (GE 3 at 38-45, GE 4 at 12; AE A) 
Applicant is aware the drugs he used, purchased, cultivated, and sold are illegal 
under federal law. He said he first used marijuana in 2014 while at home alone after 
purchasing it on the dark web using bitcoin. He consumed marijuana in vape or cigarette 
form, while alone and also with friends in social settings. He continued his involvement 
with marijuana by purchasing it from dispensaries in State 1 (S1), which allows the 
recreational use of marijuana. He said he felt euphoric after using marijuana but denied 
being dependent upon it. He stopped because he lost interest , was in therapy, and 
desired a sober lifestyle. He last used marijuana in June 2023 and denied having a future 
intent to use marijuana. (GE 3, 4) 
Applicant said he began using hallucinogenic psilocybin mushrooms in July 2015 
because he was curious. He purchased mushrooms from the same supplier on the dark 
web using bitcoin, and he used the mushrooms while home alone from July to December 
2015. He claimed he stopped using mushrooms in December 2015 and resumed his use 
in 2019. In 2019, he said he used mushrooms twice, had a negative experience, and he 
stopped his use. He said using mushrooms made him feel euphoric , but he was not 
dependent upon the drug. Like with marijuana, he stopped because he lost interest, was 
in therapy, and desired a sober lifestyle. He denied having a future intent to use it. (GE 3, 
4) 
2 
 
 
 
 
   
    
  
      
        
    
   
 
   
 
 
    
      
       
     
   
 
   
      
   
   
  
    
      
     
      
 
       
      
     
       
     
      
 
     
    
     
  
   
 
 
  
    
    
Applicant cultivated hallucinogenic mushrooms between 2018 and 2020 in his 
parents’ home and in his college dorm room because he did not have a supplier, and he 
also wanted to sell the drug to earn extra money. The crop yielded about 212 grams of 
mushrooms. In 2020, Applicant said he sold 180 grams of mushrooms for $1,000, and 
gave away the remainder. He claimed he used the money to pay for the material he 
purchased to cultivate the crop, and had a remaining profit. He denied having an intent to 
cultivate or sell mushrooms in the future. (GE 3, 4; AE A) 
Applicant said he used 1-propanoyl-lysergic acid diethylamide ( 1P-LSD) six or 
seven times in 2019 as an experiment after purchasing it from a chemical research 
website for about $100. He claimed 1P -LSD is not considered LSD, but that it has the 
same effects. He used 1P-LSD in the form of blotting papers, which had about 100 
micrograms of 1P-LSD in it. He said he consumed between one and eight blotting papers 
each time, and that using 1P-LSD made him feel euphoric but that he was not dependent 
upon it. He stopped using 1P-LSD in 2019 for the same reasons discussed above, and 
he denied having an intent to use 1P-LSD in the future. (GE 3, 4; AE A) 
Applicant said he started using dimethyltryptamine (DMT) in 2019 as an 
experiment. He used science to procure, or cultivate DMT in his home. He extracted DMT 
from a plant (mimosa hostilis) that he purchased and used for this purpose. After 
extraction, he used DMT by inhaling it. He said he used DMT with friends at his apartment 
five or six times in a single month in 2019, and then used it three times between March 
and April 2023. Though owning the plant itself was not illegal, Applicant acknowledged 
his awareness that extracting and using DMT is federally illegal. Applicant said he 
stopped using DMT in April 2023 for the same reasons discussed above . He denied 
having a future intent to use DMT. (GE 3, 4; AE A) 
Applicant disclosed he purchased 30 Xanax pills in November 2020 from an 
individual who was prescribed the drug. He has a friend who uses Xanax for recreational 
purposes, and he wanted to do him a favor. Applicant paid $4 per pill or $120. He sold 
half the pills to his friend for the same price he paid, and kept the other half to sell in the 
future. In February 2021, the same friend wanted the 15 remaining Xanax pills. Applicant 
still associates with a few friends who use drugs. (GE 3, 4) 
The SOR alleges under Guideline H that Applicant used, purchased, sold, and/or 
cultivated multiple illegal drugs during the periods described above (SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 
1.k). Applicant admitted all allegations with explanations . He submitted voluminous 
medical record documents, from about 2021 through early 2025, that detailed his ongoing 
therapy and treatment for bipolar mood disorder. 
Policies  
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
3 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
    
 
   
  
    
      
 
 
 
  
   
 
     
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
   
   
   
 
  
  
 
  
 
    
  
 
  
  
 
1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines (AG), which became 
effective on June 8, 2017. 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified infor mation. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline H, Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
              
    
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
   
The security concern for drug involvement and substance misuse is described in 
AG ¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual's reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person's ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any "controlled substance" as 
defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in 
this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
AG ¶ 25 describes conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying. Those that are potentially applicable are: 
(a)  any substance misuse (see above definition);  and  
(c
)  illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation,  
proc
essing, manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession of  
drug paraphernalia; and  
Applicant  admitted he used , purchased, sold, and cultivated  various illegal and 
mind-altering drugs  during the periods between 2014 and  2023,  as alleged,  and his 
admissions are further supported by  other  evidence in the record.  Applicant’s  use of  1P-
LSD qualities as  an “other” substance  that  caused a physical  or mental impairment.  He 
said 1P-LSD has  the same effects  as LSD.  AG  ¶¶ 25(a)  and 25(c)  apply.  
A
G ¶ 26 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. The following 
are potentially applicable: 
(a)  the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or  happened  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur  or does not cast  doubt  
on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment; and  
(b)  the individual acknowledges  hi s or her drug involvement and substance  
misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and  
has established a pattern of abstinence, including,  but not limited to:(1)  
disassociation from drug- using associates  and contacts;  (2) changing or  
avoiding the environment where drugs were used; and  (3) providing a   
signed statement of  intent to abstain from all drug involvement and  
substance misuse, acknowledging that  any future involvement or  misuse is  
grounds for revocation of national security  eligibility.   
AG ¶
 26(a) is not fully established. Though the majority of Applicant ’s drug 
involvement and substance misuse occurred during his college years, 2014 through 2020, 
5 
 
 
 
 
        
  
   
  
    
 
       
       
    
     
     
     
      
      
     
     
    
       
     
 
          
    
    
      
       
  
   
 
 
      
  
 
  
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
 
   
 
some of his drug activities were more serious and concerning than the typical college 
student behavior . Some drug activities and behaviors extended well beyond college . 
Applicant used and purchased psilocybin mushrooms and 1P -LSD between 2015 and 
2019, alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.c, 1.d, 1.g, and 1.h . These allegations are mitigated by time, 
and AG ¶ 26(a) applies. 
However, AG ¶ 26(a) does not apply to mitigate allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b. 
Applicant’s initial purchase of marijuana occurred on the dark web with bitcoin in 2014. 
He used marijuana from July 2014 up until June 2023, only about two years ago . He 
cultivated and sold ps ilocybin mushrooms from 2018 through 2020. He did not have a 
supplier, so he purchased the material to cultivate hallucinogenic mushrooms from a 
seller on the dark web. He grew the hallucinogenic mushrooms in his dorm room and in 
his parents’ home. The crop yielded about 212 grams of hallucinogenic mushrooms and 
he sold most of it to a friend for profit. He also cultivated and used DMT from about 2019 
through 2023. He used science to extract DMT from a plant he purchased, and then used 
DMT on several occasions with friends in his apartment. Applicant’s purchase and selling 
of the prescription drug Xanax in 2020 and 2021 also reflected poor judgment and raised 
questions about his reliability and trustworthiness. AG ¶ 26(a) does not apply to mitigate 
any of the concerns alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.e, 1.f, 1.i, 1.j, and 1.k. 
AG ¶ 26( b) is not fully established. Applicant is currently undergoing therapy for 
bipolar mood disorder, and as a result, he has taken positive steps to abstain from his 
involvement with illegal drugs. He is credited with being on the right track, but not enough 
time has passed to establish a clear pattern of abstinence. He admitted he has not fully 
disassociated himself from his drug-using friends or contacts, and there is insufficient 
evidence to show he changed or avoided the environment where drugs were used. 
Applicant is unable to mitigate drug involvement and substance misuse security concerns 
through his evidence. 
Applicant’s drug involvement reflects poor judgment and raises questions about 
his reliability and trustworthiness. His statements and evidence are insufficient to 
overcome concerns and doubts about his current judgment, reliability, and willingness to 
comply with laws, rules, and regulations. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. In applying the whole-
person concept, an administrative judge must evaluate an applicant’s eligibility for a 
security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct and all relevant 
circumstances. An administrative judge should consider the nine adjudicative process 
factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
     
 
  
 
  
  
    
 
 
      
    
 
    
 
     
 
    
 
    
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other  permanent behavioral  changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.   
I have incorporated my comments under Guideline H in my whole-person analysis 
and applied the adjudicative factors in AG ¶ 2(d). Because this case is decided on the 
written record, I had no opportunity to question Applicant about any of the security 
concerns in the case, nor did I have an opportunity to observe his demeanor and thereby 
assess his credibility. 
Therefore, after weighing the disqualifying and mitigating conditions under 
Guideline H and evaluating all evidence in the whole-person context, I conclude Applicant 
failed to mitigate the security concerns raised in this case. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline H:  
  AGAI
NST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 1.a  - 1.b:  Against Applicant 
Subparagraphs  1.c - 1.d:   For Applicant 
Subparagraphs  1.e  - 1.f:  Against Applicant 
Subparagraphs  1.g - 1.h:  For Applicant 
Subparagraphs  1.i –   1.k:  Against Applicant 
Conclusion  
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant’s eligibility 
for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Gatha LaFaye 
Administrative Judge 
7 