         
    
  
 
   
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
     
    
     
    
 
        
    
 
   
   
 
  
   
   
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 24-01134 
Appearances  
For Government: Rhett Petcher, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
08/25/2025 
Decision 
HYAMS, Ross D., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant mitigated the Guideline D (sexual behavior) and Guideline E ( personal 
conduct) security concerns. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on October 17, 2023. 
On October 2, 202 4, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) 
issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under 
Guideline D (sexual behavior) and Guideline E (personal conduct). Applicant answered 
the SOR on October 27, 2024, and requested a decision by an administrative judge from 
the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) on the administrative (written) 
record in lieu of a hearing. 
On April 1, 2025, Department Counsel submitted the Government’s file of relevant 
material (FORM), including Items 1-3 . A complete copy of the FORM was provided to 
Applicant, who was afforded an opportunity to file objections and submit material to refute, 
extenuate, or mitigate the security concerns. He received the FORM on April 10, 2025, 
and did not provide a response. The case was assigned to me on July 21, 2025. Item 1 
 
 
 
 
 
   
       
    
     
   
 
 
 
 
 
      
      
     
    
 
   
   
      
       
   
 
 
        
      
  
 
           
     
   
      
 
    
  
is  the SOR and Applicant’s Answer, which are the pleadings in the case. Items  2  and 3  
are ad
mitted without objection.  
Reopening the Record  
On August
 15, 2025, I emailed Applicant and Department Counsel to reopen the 
record in this case. I requested Applicant answer two questions to ascertain critical 
information that was ambiguous in the case documentation. This information was needed 
to properly consider the security concerns in this case, and to ensure a fair and impartial 
commonsense decision based upon consideration of all relevant and material information 
(DODD 5220.6 § 6.3). The two questions asked: 
1.  Was the woman tha t Applicant had an extramarital affair with a U.S.  national?  
2.  Would Applicant  disclose or compromise national security information to keep
his 2002 extramarital affair secret  from his wife or anyone else?   
 
A
pplic
ant replied to the email and answered the two questions on August 15, 2025. 
I have marked his email response as Applicant’s Exhibit (AE) A. On August 18, 2025, 
Department Counsel objected to reopening the record to obtain this information. That 
objection is overruled. AE A is admitted into the record. 
Department Counsel requested that the case be converted to a hearing if I 
considered the information in AE A. That request is denied. Under DODD 5220.6 § E3.1.7 
Department Counsel has 20 days from the receipt of Applicant’s SOR Answer to convert 
the case to a hearing. Applicant’s SOR Answer was from October 27, 2024, and the time 
permissible to convert the case to a hearing lapsed in late 2024. 
Findings of Fact  
In his Answer, Applicant admitted the SOR allegations. His answer did not include 
any narrative or documentation. Based on my review of the pleadings and evidence 
submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact. 
Applicant is 58 years old. He married in 1990 and has three adult children. He 
earned a bachelor’s degree in 1989 and a doctorate in 1996. He works in a science field 
for a government contractor. He has worked for his current employer since 2018. He has 
not previously possessed a security clearance. (Item 2) 
The SOR alleges the following under Guideline D: 
2 
 SOR ¶  1.a alleges that  Applicant  engaged in an extramarital affair in September  
2002. SOR ¶  1.b  alleges  that no one in  Applicant’s personal circle, including his wife, is 
aware of  the extramarital affair from  2002,  and that Applicant  believes  the ex istence of  
 
 
 
 
     
     
      
   
 
 
    
  
    
 
   
    
 
       
    
    
     
   
      
 
      
      
  
 
 
     
    
      
      
     
    
         
     
  
    
 
   
    
 
   
 
the affair can be used to blackmail him . The SOR c ross-alleges the Guideline D  
allegations  under  Guideline E  in SOR  ¶  2.a.  
The information supporting these allegations appears in one paragraph of the 
summary report of Applicant’s background interview with a government investigator on 
April 2, 2024. Applicant was sent the report and asked: “Does the report accurately reflect 
the information you provided during your interview ,” to which he answered “yes” on 
September 9, 2024. (Item 3) 
The relevant paragraph of the summary report provides the following information: 
In September 2002, Applicant had an extramarital affair that lasted about 30 days; At that 
time his marriage was having difficulties ; He stated it is very unlikely to happen again in 
the future, and he no longer pursues extramarital affairs; and No one is aware of the affair, 
and he does not want his wife to know. (Item 3) 
Two sentences in the relevant paragraph of the report state “Subject participated 
in the activity voluntarily and was aware that it was an issue. This did not contribute to 
any other issues and subject provided this is very unlikely to occur again in the future.” 
No further information was provided about what “issue” means in these two contexts. The 
word “issue” was used another time in the paragraph with a different meaning, that would 
not make sense in the two other uses of this word. (Item 3) 
The summary report uses standardized or boilerplate language from the 
background investigator throughout the report to organize and encapsulate areas of 
inquiry. This standardized language is in every paragraph of the report , and was not 
provided by Applicant. (Item 3) 
The relevant paragraph in the summary report starts with standardized language: 
“Subject believes he has engaged in compulsive, self -destructive or high-risk sexual 
behavior that might make him vulnerable to coercion, exploitation, or duress.” The report 
did not provide any explanation or information about how a 30-day extramarital affair from 
2002 was compulsive, self-destructive, or high- risk sexual behavior. Other than the 
statement that he did not want his wife to know, the report had no further explanation or 
information about how the extramarital affair from 2002 made him vulnerable to coercion, 
exploitation, or duress. At the end of the paragraph, the report states: “Subject did provide 
that this situation can be used against him for blackmail or coercion. ” No further 
explanation or information was provided. (Item 3) 
In AE A, Applicant reported the woman he had the extramarital affair with in 2002 
was a U.S. national. In response to my direct question, he stated that he would not 
disclose or compromise national security information to keep his 2002 extramarital affair 
secret from his wife or anyone else. (AE A) 
3 
 
 
 
 
  
    
    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
    
 
  
 
   
    
      
  
    
  
 
     
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
 
  
  
 
  
 
Policies  
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines (AG), which became 
effective on June 8, 2017. 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in eval uating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 
2(b) requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national 
security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified infor mation. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
   
   
 
  
   
    
 
     
      
 
concerned.”  See also  EO 12968,  Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access  
to classified or sensitive information).   
Analysis  
Guideline D, Sexual Behavior  
The security concern for sexual behavior is set out in AG ¶ 12:    
Sexual behavior that involves a criminal offense; reflects a lack  of judgment  
or discretion; or  may subject the individual to undue influence of coercion,  
exploitation, or  duress. These issues, together or individually,  may raise  
questions about an individual's  judgment, reliability, trustworthiness, and  
ability to protect classified or sensitive information.  Sexual behavior  
includes conduct occurring in person or via audio, visual, electronic, or  
written  transmission. No adverse inference concerning the standards in this  
Guideline may be raised  solely on the basis  of the sexual orientation of the 
individual.  
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 13: 
(a) sexual behavior of  a crim inal nature, whether or not  the individual has  
been  prosecuted;  
(b) pattern of compulsive,  self-d estructive,  or high-risk sexual  behavior that  
the  individual is  unable to stop;   
(c) sexual behavior that causes an individual to be vulnerable to coercion,  
exploit
ation, or  duress; and   
(d) sexual beh
avior of a public nature or that reflects lack of discretion or 
judgment. 
An extramarital affair is not criminal behavior. The affair occurred over about 30 
days and it has been 23 years since Applicant ended the affair. There is no evidence in 
the record that he engaged in other extramarital affairs. There is insufficient evidence in 
the record to find that this extramarital affair is compulsive, self-destructive, or high-risk 
behavior that he is unable to stop. Nor was it of a public nature or a reflection of a lack of 
discretion or judgment. AG ¶¶ 13(a), 13(b), and 13(d) do not apply. 
In the FORM, Department Counsel argues that AG ¶ 13(c) applies because his 
wife and per sonal circle are unaware of the 2002 extramarital affair, and this makes 
5 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
    
     
  
       
  
 
      
    
   
 
   
   
 
   
    
  
  
  
 
   
   
  
     
     
      
       
 
 
Applicant vulnerable to coercion, exploitation,  or duress.  Since Applicant admitted the  
Guideline  D allegations in his  Answer, I will apply  AG ¶  13(c).  
Conditions that could mitigate the sexual behavior security concerns are provided 
under AG ¶ 14. The following are potentially applicable: 
(b) the sexual behavior happened so long ago,  so i
 nfrequently, or under such  
unusual  circumstances, that it is unlikely to recur and does not cast  doubt on 
the individual's  current  reliability, trustworthiness, or judgment;   
(c) the behavior no longer serves  as a  basis for coercion, exploitation, or  
duress;  and  
(d) the sex
ual behavior is strictly private, consensual, and discreet. 
AG ¶ 14(b) applies. The extramarital affair occurred 23 years ago, for about 30 
days. This is infrequent. There is no evidence in the record that Applicant engaged in 
other extramarital affairs. Applicant reported it happened under unusual circumstances 
and is unlikely to recur. It does not cast doubt on his current reliability, trustworthiness, or 
judgment. 
AG ¶ 14(d) applies. The extramarital affair was private and consensual. No record 
evidence shows otherwise. Applicant demonstrated discretion in not telling anyone about 
the affair, and he demonstrated candor by telling the background investigator about it. 
AG ¶ 14(c) applies. The 30- day extramarital affair fr om 23 years ago no longer 
serves as a basis for coercion, exploitation, or duress. The summary report contained no 
information about how Applicant could be vulnerable to coercion, exploitation, or duress, 
other than saying that he did not want his wife to know. It is reasonable to surmise that 
Applicant does not want his wife to find out because he does not want to hurt her feelings. 
There is clearly no legal or reputational jeopardy after so much time has elapsed. 
Applicant affirmed that he will not disclose or compromise national security information to 
keep his 2002 extramarital affair secret from his wife or anyone else. 
In addition to findings under AG ¶ 14 above, it is important note that the information 
in the record that supports Department Counsel’s assertion that Applicant would be 
vulnerable to coercion, exploitation, or duress , is the background investigator’s 
standardized language in one relevant paragraph of the summary report. Standardized 
language that is aligned with questions asked in the SCA, appears throughout the report, 
and was not provided by Applicant. The report’s failure to include any detailed information 
about the purported vulnerability supports this premise. 
6 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
     
   
       
   
   
  
 
   
 
 
 
Guideline E,  Personal Conduct  
AG ¶ 15 details the personal conduct security concern: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or  
unwillingness  to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions  
about  an individual's reliability,  trustworthiness, and ability  to protect  
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is  any failure to  
cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national security  
investigative or  adjudicative processes…  
I have considered the disqualifying condition for personal conduct under AG ¶ 16: 
(e) personal conduct,  or co ncealment  of information about one's conduct,  
that  creates a  vulnerability to exploitation,  manipulation,  or duress by a  
foreign intelligence entity  or  other  individual or  group.  Such conduct  
includes:  
(1) engaging in activities which, if known, could affect the person's  
person
al,  professional, or community standing;  
(2) while in another country, engaging in any  acti vity that is illegal in  
that  country;  
(3) while i
n another country, engaging in any activity that, while legal 
there, is illegal in the United States. 
The Guideline D allegations are cross -alleged under Guideline E. In the FORM, 
Department Counsel argues that AG ¶ 16(e)(1) applies because his wife and personal 
circle are unaware of the 2002 extramarital affair, this makes Applicant vulnerable to 
coercion, exploitation, or duress. AG ¶¶ 16(e)(2) and (e)(3) do not apply because the 
extramarital affair occurred in the United States, and an extramarital affair is not criminal 
behavior. Since Applicant admitted the Guideline E allegation in his Answer, I will apply 
AG ¶ 16(e)(1). 
I have considered the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 17. The following is 
potentially applicable: 
(c) the offense is so minor, or so much time has passed, or the behavior is  
so infrequent,  or it happened under such unique circumstances that it is  
unlikely to recur  and  does not  cast doubt  on the individual's reliability,  
trustworthiness, or  good judgment.  
7 
 
 
 
    
   
  
     
   
  
  
  
    
     
      
        
  
  
 
 
  
 
    
   
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
   
     
  
 
     
   
  
 
AG ¶ 17(c) applies. I found for Applicant under Guideline D and the same 
reasoning applies under Guideline E. It is a minor issue, infrequent, and over two decades 
have since passed. There is no evidence in the record that he engaged in other 
extramarital affairs. Applicant reported it happened under unusual circumstances and is 
unlikely to recur. It does not cast doubt on his current reliability, trustworthiness, or 
judgment. 
The relevant paragraph in the summary report contained no information about how 
Applicant could be vulnerable to coercion, exploitation, or duress, other than saying that 
he did not want his wife to know. It is reasonable to surmise that Applicant does not want 
his wife to find out because he does not want to hurt her feelings. There was no other 
likely way a 30-day extramarital affair from 2002 could impact Applicant’s personal, 
professional, or community standing. Applicant affirmed that he will not disclose or 
compromise national security information to keep his 2002 extramarital affair secret from 
his wife or anyone else. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. I considered the potentially 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances 
surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under Guidelines D and E in my 
whole-person analysis. 
Overall, the record evidence leaves me without questions or doubts about 
Applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance. There is sufficient evidence to mitigate the 
security concerns under Guidelines D and E. 
8 
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
   
 
      
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR as 
amended, and as required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  Guideline D:   FOR  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a-1.b:  For  Applicant  
Paragraph 2, Guideline E:  For  APPLICANT  
Subparagraph 2.a:  For  Applicant  
Conclusion  
It is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant a security 
clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Ross D. Hyams 
Administrative Judge 
9 