 
 
 
 
 
               
 
                   
          
           
             
 
 
 
    
  
      
   
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
 
  
      
  
   
    
  
    
  
______________ 
______
________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
"'L 09i~ .t!J~ 0 
"' ;:. "tr 
00 
"" 
In th
e matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-02364 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Cynthia Ruckno, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
12/15/2025 
Decision 
FOREMAN, LeRoy F., Administrative Judge: 
This case involves security concerns raised under Guidelines H (Drug 
Involvement) and E (Personal Conduct). Clearance is granted. 
Statement  of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on June 19, 2024. On 
March 18, 2025, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) sent him 
a Statement of Reasons (SOR) alleging security concerns under Guidelines H and E. The 
DCSA acted under Executive Order ( Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified 
Information within Industry (February 20, 19 60), as amended ; Department of Defense 
(DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) 
promulgated in Security Executive Agent Directive 4, National Security Adjudicative 
Guidelines (December 10, 2016), which became effective on June 8, 2017. 
1 
 
 
 
  
    
   
       
  
    
 
    
   
  
  
  
     
 
 
 
     
    
    
   
 
    
       
       
   
     
     
 
  
   
 
    
    
   
    
     
 
   
  
 
 
  
     
 
    
  
   
Applicant answered the SOR on March 21, 2025, and requested a hearing before 
an administrative judge. Department Counsel was ready to proceed on May 7, 2025. The 
case was assigned to me on August 19, 2025. On September 2, 2025, the Defense Office 
of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) notified Applicant that the hearing was scheduled to be 
conducted by video teleconference on September 29, 2025. I convened the hearing as 
scheduled. Government Exhibits 1 through 5 were admitted in evidence without objection. 
Applicant testified but did not present the testimony of any other witnesses or 
submit any documentary evidence. I kept the record open until October 9, 2025, to enable 
him to submit documentary evidence. He timely submitted Applicant Exhibits (AX) A and 
B, which were admitted without objection. DOHA received the transcript on October 14, 
2025. My decision was delayed when all administrative judges were furloughed from 
October 1 to November 12, 2025, during a federal government shutdown due to a lapse 
in federal funding. 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted all the allegations in the SOR under 
Guideline H. He admitted the omissions from his SCA, alleged under Guideline E, but he 
denied intentional falsification, stating that the omissions were honest mistakes. His 
admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact. 
Applicant is a 36-year-old employee of a federal contractor. He was initially hired 
as shipping and receiv ing clerk in June 2024 . Shortly thereafter, he was promoted to 
being a material coordinator, a position that requires a security clearance. He has never 
held a security clearance. He has a high-school education. He has lived with a cohabitant 
since March 2015. (GX 1 at 20) He testified that he and his cohabitant have “been 
together” since December 2012. (Tr. 22) He has three children, ages ten, four, and two. 
Court records reflect that in September 2008, Applicant was charged with 
possession of marijuana. He pleaded guilty and received unsupervised probation before 
judgment. (GX 3) In March 2011, he was charged with possession of marijuana, and his 
case was placed on the “stet” docket. (GX 4) He testified that this arrest occurred when 
he was in a hotel room during a party where marijuana was being used. In May 2014, he 
was charged with possession of marijuana This arrest occurred when police observed 
four individuals, including Applicant, passing around a marijuana cigarette in a parking 
lot. (GX 5) The record does not reflect the disposition of this charge. 
When Applicant submitted his SCA in June 2024, he answered “no” the questions 
asking if, in the last seven years he had illegally used any drugs or controlled substances, 
and asking if, in the last seven years, he had been involved in the illegal purchase, 
manufacture, cultivation, trafficking, production, transfer, shipping, receiving, handling, or 
sale of any drug or controlled substance. He also answered “no” to the question whether 
he had ever been charged with an offense involving alcohol or drugs. (GX 1 at 28-29) 
When Applicant was interviewed by a security investigator in September 2024, he 
admitted being arrested for possession of marijuana in September 2008 , March 2011, 
and May 2014. He also admitted to the investigator that, in addition to his recreational 
2 
 
 
 
    
    
   
 
 
      
   
   
 
     
   
    
   
    
  
 
     
  
    
      
         
  
 
 
    
      
  
    
     
 
    
   
      
 
 
      
  
  
     
    
 
      
 
 
   
   
    
use of marijuana between 2008 and 2014, he used marijuana once in May or June 2024 
to deal with back pain. (GX 2 at 9) He repeated his admissions in response to DOHA 
interrogatories on February 19, 2025. (GX 2 at 4) 
At the hearing, Applicant testified that he had never previously submitted an SCA. 
He declared that he had no reason to lie. He testified, “I don’t know how I messed the 
questionnaire up, I really don’t, I mean because I know that the government is going to 
find all this stuff out, I know you all are going to find it out.” (Tr. 37) 
Applicant testified the investigator did not ask him about his answers in the SCA, 
but she asked him if he had ever been arrested, and he revealed his drug-related arrests 
in response to that question. (Tr. 38-39) He also admitted that he used marijuana for back 
pain one time in May 2024. At the hearing, he testified that he purchased the marijuana 
from a dispensary, not a dealer . (Tr. 30, 41) At the time he purchased it , medical use of 
marijuana was legal in the jurisdiction where he lived. 
Applicant testified that his goals changed when he became involved with his 
fiancée. He testified that he and his fiancée have “been together” since December 2012. 
His SCA reflects that they have lived together since March 2015. Their first child was born 
in April 2015. They have had three boys together. (GX 2 at 8) Applicant testified that his 
“main goal” in life is to own land, own a house, and to raise his boys to be good men. He 
enjoys fishing, hunting, and growing his family’s own produce and flowers. (Tr. 22, 32, 
33) 
Applicant’s assistant facility security officer , who is also his supervisor, testified 
that Applicant has earned a reputation for exemplary work and was appointed to 
supervisory positions before an issue arose regarding his application for a security 
clearance. (Tr. 14- 18) He was not aware of Applicant’s prior marijuana use, but he 
testified that Applicant’s strong work ethic gives him “less of a pause” about it. (Tr. 19-20) 
After the hearing, on September 30, 2025, Applicant submitted a written statement 
of intent to refrain from using any illegal drugs in the future, and he agreed to automatic 
revocation of his national security eligibility for any illegal drug usage in the future. (AX A) 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it i s clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
3 
 
 
 
   
      
    
 
     
  
  
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
    
   
  
 
   
   
 
    
   
   
   
 
   
   
  
 
   
       
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
decision. An a dministrative judge must consider all available and reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865 
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant 
has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have 
established for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan at 531. Substantial 
evidence is “such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to 
support a conclusion in light of all the contrary evidence in the same record.” See ISCR 
Case No. 17- 04166 at 3 (App. Bd. Mar. 21, 2019) . It is “less than the weight of the 
evidence, and the possibility of drawing two inconsistent conclusions from the evidence 
does not prevent [a Judge’s] finding from being supported by substantial evidence.” 
Consolo v. Federal Maritime Comm’n, 383 U.S. 607, 620 (1966). “Substantial evidence” 
is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. Washington Metro. Area 
Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines presume a nexus or 
rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria listed therein and 
an applicant’s security suitability. ISCR Case No. 15-01253 at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 20, 2016).  
Once the  G overnment establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial  
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive  ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of  proving a mitigating condition,  
and the burden of disproving it  never shifts to the  Government.  See  ISCR Case No.  02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep.  22,  2005).   
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent  
with the national interest to grant or continue  his security clearance.”  ISCR Case No.  01-
20700 at  3 (App. Bd.  Dec. 19, 2002).  “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  Egan  at 531.   
On October 25, 2014, the Director of National Intelligence (the Security Executive 
Agent (SecEA)) issued DNI Memorandum ES 2014-00674, “Adherence to Federal Laws 
Prohibiting Marijuana Use,” which states: 
4 
 
 
 
  
 
   
   
      
 
  
   
 
  
   
  
   
 
 
     
   
   
 
 
  
   
 
   
  
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
[C]hanges to state laws and the laws of the District of Columbia pertaining 
to marijuana use do not alter the existing National Security Adjudicative 
Guidelines. . . . An individual’s disregard of federal law pertaining to the use, 
sale, or manufacture of marijuana remains adjudicatively relevant in 
national security determinations. As always, adjudicative authorities are 
expected to evaluate claimed or developed use of, or involvement with, 
marijuana using the current adjudicative criteria. The adjudicative authority 
must determine if the use of, or involvement with, marijuana raises 
questions about the individual’s judgment, reliability, trustworthiness, and 
willingness to comply with law, rules, and regulations, including federal 
laws, when making eligibi lity decisions of persons proposed for, or 
occupying, sensitive national security positions. 
On December 21, 2021, the SecEA promulgated clarifying guidance concerning 
marijuana-related issues in security clearance adjudications. It states in pertinent part: 
[Federal] agencies are instructed that prior recreational marijuana use by an 
individual may be relevant to adjudications but not determinative. The 
SecEA has provided direction in [the adjudicative guidelines] to agencies 
that requires them to use a “whol e-person concept.” This requires 
adjudicators to carefully weigh a number of variables in an individual’s life to 
determine whether that individual’s behavior raises a security concern, if at 
all, and whether that concern has been mitigated such that the i ndividual 
may now receive a favorable adjudicative determination. Relevant 
mitigations include, but are not limited to, frequency of use and whether the 
individual can demonstrate that future use is unlikely to recur, including by 
signing an attestation or other such appropriate mitigation. . . . 
Analysis  
Guideline  H (Drug Involvement)  
The concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any “controlled substance” as 
defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in 
this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
Applicant’s admissions and the evidence submitted at the hearing establish the 
following disqualifying conditions under this guideline: 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
   
    
        
    
 
 
  
 
  
  
    
 
   
AG  ¶ 25(a): any  substance misuse (see above definition); and  
A
G ¶ 25(c):  illegal possession of  a con trolled substance, including  
cultivation, processing, manufacture,  purchase, sale, or distribution; or  
possession of drug paraphernalia.  
The f
ollowing mitigating conditions are potentially applicable: 
AG ¶ 26(a):  the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or  
happen
ed under such circumstances that it is  unlikely to recur or does not  
cast doubt  on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  
judgment; and  
AG ¶ 26(b):  the individual  ac knowledges his  or her drug involvement  and  
substance misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this  
problem, and has established a p  attern of abstinence,  including, but  not  
limited to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-usi ng associates and contacts;  
(2) changing or  avoi ding the environment where drugs were used;  
and  
(3) providing a signed statement  of i ntent to abstain from  all drug  
involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future  
involvement  or misuse is grounds for revocation of  national security  
eligibility  
AG ¶
 26(a) is established. Applicant’s recreational use of marijuana ended more 
than ten years ago. His single medical use of marijuana in May 2024 was legal under 
state law, has not recurred, and is not likely to recur. 
AG ¶ 26(b) is established. Applicant no longer associates with illegal drug users. 
He is totally involved with his job and his family. His supervisor, who is also the assistant 
facility security officer, vouches for his exemplary work and supports his application for a 
clearance. After the hearing, Applicant provided the signed statement of intent provided 
for in AG ¶ 26(b)(3). 
Guideline E (Personal Conduct)  
The security concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual ’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to 
cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes. . . . 
6 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
   
   
  
   
   
     
    
    
   
  
 
 
   
  
   
   
   
 
 
    
   
  
    
      
 
 
  
The following disqualifying condition is relevant to established by Applicant’s 
admissions and the evidence submitted at the hearing: 
AG ¶16 (a):  deliberate omission, concealment, or falsification of relevant  
facts from any  personnel  security  questionnaire, personal history  statement,  
or similar form used to conduct investigations, determine employment  
qualifications, award benefits or status, determine national security  eligibility  
or trustworthiness,  or award fiduciary responsibilities.  
At the hearing, Applicant denied intentionally falsifying his SCA, stating that he 
knew that any falsification would be discovered by security investigators. However, he 
admitted the omission in his answer to the SOR, and his admission is sufficient to 
establish AG ¶ 16(a). However, he corrected his omission shortly thereafter during an 
interview with a security investigator. Thus, I conclude that his omission was mitigated 
under AG ¶ 17(a): “the individual made prompt, good-faith efforts to correct the omission, 
concealment, or falsification before being confronted with the facts .” See ISCR Case No 
22-02601 (App. Bd. Feb. 22, 2024) (“Prompt” means a reasonable time, and “good faith” 
means acting in a way that reflects reasonableness, prudence, honesty, and adherence 
to duty or obligation.) 
Whole-Person  Analysis  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant a security 
clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. An administrative judge must evaluate 
an applicant’s security eligibility by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct and 
all the relevant circumstances. An administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.   
I have incorporated my comments under Guidelines H and E in my whole-person 
analysis and applied the adjudicative factors in AG ¶ 2(d). Applicant was candid, sincere, 
remorseful, and credible at the hearing. After weighing the disqualifying and mitigating 
conditions under those g uidelines and evaluating all the evidence in the context of the 
whole person, I conclude that Applicant has mitigated the security concerns raised by his 
drug involvement and personal conduct. 
7 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Formal Findings  
I make the following formal findings on the allegations in the SOR: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline H (Drug Involvement):  F
 OR APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.d:  For Applicant  
Paragraph 2, Guideline E (Personal Conduct):  FOR APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  2.a and 2.b:  For Applicant  
Conclusion  
I c
onclude that it is clearly consistent with the national security interests of the 
United States to grant Applicant eligibility for access to classified information. Clearance 
is granted. 
LeRoy F. Foreman 
Administrative Judge 
8 