 
 
  
 
  
        
         
           
             
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
 
  
     
 
   
   
  
   
   
 
    
 
  
  
 
  
___________ 
___________ 
DEPAR
TMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of:  )  
 )  
              )   ISCR Case No. 24-01854  
  )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance   )  
Appearances  
For Government: Rhett Petcher, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
06/16/2025 
Decision 
HARVEY, Mark, Administrative Judge: 
Security concerns arising under Guideline H (drug involvement and substance 
misuse) are not mitigated. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On January 4, 2024, Applicant completed and signed Electronic Questionnaires 
for Investigations Processing (e- QIP) or security clearance application (SCA). 
(Government Exhibit (GE) 1) On December 26, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence 
and Security Agency (DCSA) issued a statement of reasons (SOR) to Applicant under 
Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry, 
February 20, 1960; Department of Defense ( DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial 
Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (Directive), January 2, 1992; and Security 
Executive Agent Directive 4, establishing in Appendix A the National Security Adjudicative 
Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to 
Hold a Sensitive Position (AGs), effective June 8, 2017. (Hearing Exhibit (HE) 2) 
The SOR detailed reasons why the DCSA did not find under the Directive that it is 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant or continue a security 
clearance for Applicant and recommended referral to an administrative judge to 
determine whether a clearance should be granted, continued, denied, or revoked. 
 
 
    
  
     
 
      
   
    
 
       
     
    
        
    
     
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
    
     
 
    
  
    
  
    
   
 
   
     
Specifically, the SOR set forth security concerns arising under Guideline H. (HE 2) On 
January 19, 2025, Applicant provided a response to the SOR and requested a hearing. 
(HE 3) On February 28, 2025, Department Counsel was ready to proceed. 
On March 3, 2025, the case was assigned to me. On March 4, 2025, the Defense 
Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a notice s cheduling the hearing for April 
23, 2025. (HE 1) The hearing was held as scheduled. 
Department Counsel offered five exhibits into evidence; Applicant did not offer any 
exhibits into evidence; there were no objections; and I admitted all proffered exhibits into 
evidence. (Transcript (Tr.) 9, 14; GE 1-GE 5) On May 5, 2025, DOHA received a transcript 
of the hearing. Applicant provided five exhibits after his hearing, which were admitted into 
evidence without objection. (Applicant Exhibit (AE) A-AE E) The record closed on May 
27, 2025. (Tr. 47) 
Some details were excluded to protect Applicant’s right to privacy. Specific 
information is available in the cited exhibits and transcript. 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b. 
(HE 3) He denied the SOR allegation in ¶ 1.c. He also provided mitigating information. 
His admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Additional findings follow. 
Applicant  is a 33- year-old data engineer, who has worked for  a Department of  
Defense contractor  for about 18 months. (Tr.  6, 8; GE  1)  In 2010, he graduated from high  
school. (Tr. 7) He served in the Army  from  2013 to 2017. (Tr. 23 , 45; AE A)  His military  
occupational specialty (MOS) was infantryman (11B). He received  the f ollowing Army  
awards,  medals,  and badge: Army Achievement Medal;  Army Good Conduct Medal ; 
National Defense Service Medal; Global War  on Terrorism Service  Medal; Army Service 
Ribbon; Overseas Service Ribbon;  and Expert Marksmanship Badge with Rifle Bar. (AE  
A) He may have received an Army Commendation Medal. (Tr.  47)  He  was  a specialist,  
and he received an honorable discharge. (Tr. 46;  AE A)   
In 2017, Applicant received an associate degree in general studies. (Tr. 7) In 2021, 
he graduated magna cum laude with departmental honors and received a bachelor’s 
degree in chemistry. (Tr. 7; AE C) In 2022, he received a master’s degree in biomedical 
science. (Tr. 7) He received a prestigious award in his professional specialty and 
published five professional scientific articles. (AE C) He has never married. (Tr. 7) He 
plans to marry in October 2025. (Tr. 7) He does not have any children. (Tr. 8) He received 
an award for being employee of the month in September 2024. (AE D) His resume 
provides additional information about his professional accomplishments. (AE B) 
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b allege Applicant purchased and used marijuana with varying 
frequency from about March of 2023 to about November of 2024, including while holding 
2 
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
   
 
  
   
 
    
   
      
      
      
      
 
    
     
    
    
  
  
    
   
   
    
     
      
 
 
a sensitive position, i.e., one in which he held a security clearance or interim security 
clearance. SOR ¶ 1.c alleges Applicant intends to continue to use marijuana. 
Applicant first used marijuana in high school. (Tr. 17) He did not resume his  
marijuana use until he was in graduate school  around March of 2023,  when it was  
legalized in his state u nder state law . (Tr. 17 -18)  Since marijuana possession and use  
were  not prohibited under state law, he believed it was alright for him to use marijuana. 
(Tr. 19) He did not  investigate the applicability of federal laws concerning marijuana. (Tr.  
19)  He  usually  used marijuana on weekends,  and rarely used marijuana during the week. 
(Tr.  20) He purchased marijuana about twice a month. (Tr. 20)  He used marijuana at his  
residence.  (Tr. 21)  Once his  fiancée  obtained her nursing employment,  she e nded her  
marijuana use. (Tr. 21)  He most recently  used marijuana in December  2024 or  early 
January 2025. He was  unsure if he used marijuana shortly before or  after  he received the 
December 26, 2024  SOR. (Tr. 22,  42-43)    
On December 1, 2023, Applicant received a security clearance and signed a 
nondisclosure agreement. (GE 4) However, Applicant said, “I also submit that any 
minimal, state-legal use prior to receiving a clearance does not indicate unreliability or 
a lack of trustworthiness and should be mitigated under Guideline H. ” (AE C at 2 
(emphasis added)) In the same statement, he said he used marijuana while holding a 
sensitive position. (AE C at 1, 2) 
When Applicant completed his January 4, 2024 SCA, he did not disclose any use 
of illegal drugs in Section 23. (GE 1 at 28) He said he misread the questions about 
possession or use of illegal drugs. (Tr. 27) He interpreted the question to be asking about 
illegal use of drugs, and he believed at the time that his marijuana use was legal. (Tr. 27) 
On February 1, 2024, an Office of Personnel Management (OPM) investigator interviewed 
Applicant, and he disclosed his marijuana use from March 2023 to present on weekends. 
(Tr. 27-28; OPM report of investigation (ROI) at 8) He purchases marijuana about twice 
a month. Id. He said if marijuana use is authorized, he will use it; however, if his employer 
prohibits marijuana use, he will not use it. Id. 
On July 10, 2024, App licant completed a questionnaire which asked whether he 
used illegal drugs, and it explained that marijuana is a Schedule 1 controlled substance 
and is federally illegal. (Tr. 30; GE 3 at 4) Applicant checked no because he was focused 
on the word “illegally,” and he did not interpret his marijuana use to be illegal. (Tr. 31) He 
said he misinterpreted the question. (Tr. 31) He conceded it was illegal to possess and 
use marijuana because federal law prohibits marijuana possession. (Tr. 34) On 
November 13, 2024, Applicant responded to a DOHA interrogatory, which specifically 
asked about his marijuana use, and he explained he uses marijuana within the 
parameters of state law, which permits marijuana use. ( Tr. 37-38; GE 2 at 17) After he 
responded to the DOHA interrogatory on November 13, 2024, he said he did not realize 
that using marijuana was a security issue. (Tr. 38- 39) He conceded he made multiple 
errors about his marijuana use. (Tr. 40) He does not associate with marijuana users. (Tr. 
45) 
3 
 
 
    
     
    
        
   
    
 
 
  
 
   
   
   
     
 
 
     
     
 
 
  
  
   
    
 
   
 
  
 
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Applicant described his past marijuana use as limited and aligned with state law . 
(AE C) He did not believe it posed a risk to national security or his ability to safeguard 
classified information. Id. He acknowledged the seriousness of the concerns raised in the 
SOR and ask ed that the security concerns be mitigated. Id. He strives to uphold the 
highest standards of integrity and responsibility, and he is committed to adhering to all 
federal, departmental, and contractual requirements related to his security clearance. Id. 
Policies  
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion of the Executive 
Branch in regulating access to information pertaining to national security emphasizing, 
“no one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 
518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual 
is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The President 
has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicant’s eligibility for 
access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly consistent with the 
national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation 
about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Clearance 
decisions must be “in terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a 
determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 § 7. 
Thus, nothing in this decision should be construed to suggest that it is based, in whole or 
in part, on any express or implied determination about applicant’s allegiance, loyalty, or 
patriotism. It is merely an indication the applicant has not met the strict guidelines the 
President, Secretary of Defense, and Director of National Intelligence have established 
for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
4 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
    
  
  
 
  
 
 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 95 -0611 at 2 
(App. Bd. May 2, 1996). 
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial  
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶  E3.1.15. An applicant “has  the ultimate burden of  demonstrating that it  
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant  or continue his [or  her] security  
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01- 20700 at  3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). The burden of  
disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the Government.  See  ISCR Case No. 02-
31154 at  5 (App. Bd.  Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  Egan, 484 U.S. at 531;  see  AG  ¶ 2(b).   
Analysis  
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
AG ¶ 24 provides the security concern arising from drug involvement and 
substance misuse stating: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises questions 
about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and 
regulations. Controlled substance means any “controlled substance” as 
defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in 
this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
AG ¶ 25 provides conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying in this case: “(a) any substance misuse (see above definition)” ; “(c) illegal 
possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation, processing, manufacture, 
purchase, sale, or distribution; or possession of drug paraphernalia”; and “(f) any illegal 
drug use while granted access to classified information or holding a sensitive position.” 
The record establishes AG ¶¶ 25(a) , 25(c), and 25(f). Additional discussion of the 
disqualifying conditions is in the mitigation section, infra. 
AG ¶ 26 lists four conditions that could mitigate security concerns: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or
  happened  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur  or does not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good judgment;  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
   
   
 
 
    
 
  
 
 
 
    
 
  
   
     
  
  
 
(b) the individual acknowledges  hi s or her drug involvement and substance  
misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and  
has established a pattern of abstinence, including, but not limited  to: (1)  
disassociation from drug- using associates  and contacts; (2) changing or  
avoiding the environment where drugs were used; and (3)  providing a  
signed statement of  intent to abstain from all drug involvement and  
substance misuse, acknowledging that  any future involvement or  misuse is  
grounds  for revocation of national security  eligibility;  
(c) abuse of prescription drugs was  af ter  a severe or prolonged illness  
during which these drugs were prescribed, and abuse has since ended; and  
(d) satisfactory completion of a prescribed drug treatment program,  
i
ncluding, but not limited to, rehabilitation and aftercare requirements,  
without recurrence of  abuse, and a favorable prognosis  by  a duly  qualified  
medical professional.  
In ISCR Case No. 10- 04641 at 4 (App. Bd.  Sept. 24, 2013), the DOHA Appeal  
Board concisely explained Applicant’s responsibility for proving the applicability of  
mitigating conditions as follows:   
O
nce a concern arises regarding an Applicant’s security clearance 
eligibility, there is a strong presumption against the grant or maintenance of 
a security clearance. See Dorfmont v. Brown, 913 F. 2d 1399, 1401 (9th 
Cir. 1990), cert. denied, 499 U.S. 905 (1991). After the Government 
presents evidence raising security concerns, the burden shifts to the 
applicant to rebut or mitigate those concerns. See Directive ¶ E3.1.15. The 
standard applicable in security clearance decisions is that articulated in 
Egan, supra. “Any doubt concerning personnel being considered for access 
to classified information will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Directive, Enclosure 2, [App. A] ¶ 2(b). 
Applicant admitted that  h
 e possessed an d used marijuana.  Marijuana is  listed on 
Schedule I of the Controlled Substances Act.  See  21 U.S.C. § 812(c); Drug Enforcement  
Administration listing at  ht tps://www.dea.gov/drug- information/drug-scheduling.   
The S
ecurity Executive Agent (SecEA) promulgated clarifying guidance 
concerning marijuana-related issues in security clearance adjudications as follows: 
[Federal] agencies are instructed that prior recreational marijuana use by 
an individual may be relevant to adjudications but not determinative. The 
SecEA has provided direction in [the adjudicative guidelines] to agencies 
that requires them to use a “whol e-person concept.” This requires 
adjudicators to carefully weigh a few variables in an individual’s life to 
determine whether that individual’s behavior raises a security concern, if at 
all, and whether that concern has been mitigated such that the individual 
may now receive a favorable adjudicative determination. Relevant 
6 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
     
   
   
     
  
    
 
   
    
 
   
 
 
  
   
     
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
     
 
mitigations include, but are not limited to,  frequency  of  use and whether the  
individual can demonstrate that future use is  unlikely to recur, including by  
signing an attestation or other such appropriate mitigation. Additionally, in  
light of the long-standing federal law and policy prohibiting illegal drug use  
while occupying a sensitive position or  holding a security clearance,  
agencies are encouraged to advise prospective national security workforce  
employees that they should refrain from any future marijuana use upon  
initiation of the national security vetting process, which commences once  
the individual signs the certification contained  in the Standard Form 86 (SF-
86),  Questionnaire for National Security Positions.  
Security Executive Agent Clarifying Guidance Concerning Marijuana for Agencies 
Conducting Adjudications of Persons Proposed for Eligibility for Access to Classified 
Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (Dec. 21, 2021) at 2 (quoted in ISCR 
Case No. 20-02974 at 3-4 (App. Bd. Feb. 1, 2022)). 
SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b allege, and Applicant admitted, he purchased and used 
marijuana with varying frequency from about March of 2023 to about November of 2024, 
including while holding a sensitive position, i.e., one in which he held a security clearance 
or interim security clearance. SOR ¶ 1.c alleges, and Applicant denied, that he intends to 
continue to use marijuana. He credibly stated that he intends to abide by all rules related 
to security clearances, including refraining from marijuana use. SOR ¶ 1.c is mitigated. 
The DOHA Appeal Board has discussed the term of “holding a sensitive position” 
as follows: 
For purposes of national security eligibility determinations, the Directive 
defines “sensitive position” as: 
Any position within or in support of an agency in which the 
occupant could bring about, by virtue of the nature of the 
position, a material adverse effect on the national security 
regardless of whether the occupant has access to classified 
information, and regardless of whether the occupant is an 
employee, military service member, or contractor. 
SEAD 4, ¶ D.8. We have previously held that this broad language is 
“designed to be inclusive and encompass a wide range of positions, 
including those that require eligibility for access to classified information 
(i.e., a security clearance).” ISCR Case No. 22-01661 at 4 (App. Bd. Sep. 
21, 2023). The term “sensitive position” is not so broad, however, to 
encompass any and all employment with a defense contractor. 
ISCR Case No. 22-02623 at 4 (App. Bd. Jan. 24, 2024). 
7 
 
 
    
 
  
 
 
    
 
  
  
    
    
 
 
    
     
 
   
     
       
    
      
    
   
    
 
      
     
    
  
      
   
The Appeal Board discussed disqualifying condition AG ¶ 25(f) ( “any illegal drug 
use while granted access to classified information or holding a sensitive position”) , and 
noted that AG ¶ 25(f): 
provides  a basis for  disqualification that is distinct from the simple drug use  
the Judge addressed  under AG ¶¶ 25(a) and 25(c). Conduct falling under  
AG ¶ 25(f) reflects a heightened security concern inasmuch as individuals  
who have already been granted access to classified information or who hold  
sensitive positions are held to a higher standard than individuals not  
similarly situated because of  the existing potential to adversely impact  
national security.  See  Security Executive Agent  Directive 3,  Reporting  
Requirements for Personnel with Access to Classified Information or Who  
Hold a Sensitive Position (effective June 12, 2017); ISCR Case No. 22-
01661 at  3 (App.  Bd.  Sep. 21, 2023). It is undisputed that Applicant’s drug  
use occurred after  he was granted access to classified information and/or  
was in a sensitive position.  Although he maintained that he was not  working  
on a classified program at the t  ime of his  drug use,  that  is of  no 
consequence because he was employed in a sensitive position.  See  ISCR 
Case No. 22-02623 at  3 (App. Bd. Jan. 24,  2024).  
ISCR Case No. 23-01884 at 3 (App. Bd. Nov. 6, 2024). 
The DOHA Appeal Board cited t he importance of consideration of “the changing 
landscape of marijuana law and . . . of the Director of National Intelligence’s Clarifying 
Guidance Concerning Marijuana. ” ISCR Case No. 23 -02402 at 4 (App. Bd. Feb. 19, 
2025). See also ISCR Case No. 24 -00914 at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 9, 2025) (noting the 
“evolving landscape of marijuana law and policy,” “the resulting increasing prevalence of 
marijuana use,” and in some instances “recreational marijuana use deserves less, or even 
no negative inference on judgment.”). Applicant was not in violation of state law when he 
used marijuana from about from about March of 2023 to about December of 2024. 
In this instance, there is sufficient evidence that Applicant was holding a sensitive 
position under AG ¶ 25(f) when he was using marijuana from about March of 2023 to 
about December of 2024. His hearing was on April 23, 2025. He had less than six months 
of abstinence from marijuana possession and use at the time of his hearing. He is credited 
with disclosure of his marijuana involvement during the security clearance process. His 
use of marijuana was not discovered through a polygraph test, investigative ef forts, or a 
urinalysis test. He avoids persons and environments where illegal drugs are used or likely 
to be used. He promised not to use illegal drugs in the future. 
AG ¶¶ 26(a) and 26(b) do not apply because Applicant has not fully established a 
sufficient pattern of abstinence of marijuana possession and use. His decisions to 
possess and use marijuana while holding a sensitive position are an indication he lacks 
the qualities expected of those with access to national secrets. The time between 
Applicant’s involvement with marijuana and his hearing was about six months and is 
insufficient. His relatively recent involvement with marijuana continues to cast doubt on 
8 
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
    
     
    
   
   
 
  
    
    
   
   
   
    
     
   
  
   
    
    
        
    
 
  
 
  
      
     
his current reliability, trustworthiness, and judgment. Guideline H security concerns are 
not mitigated at this time. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all the circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), “[t]he ultimate determination” of whether to grant a security 
clearance “must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines” and the whole- person concept. My comments under Guideline H are 
incorporated in my whole- person analysis. Some of the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) were 
addressed under that guideline but some warrant additional comment. 
Applicant is a 33 -year-old data engineer who has worked for a Department of 
Defense contractor for about 18 months. He served in the Army from 2013 to 2017. His 
MOS was infantryman (11B). He received several Army awards, medals, and a badge . 
He received an honorable discharge. In 2017, he received an associate degree in general 
studies. In 2021, he graduated magna cum laude with departmental honors and received 
a bachelor’s degree in chemistry. In 2022, he received a master’s degree in biomedical 
science. I n September 2024, he was employee of the month. (AE D) He received a 
prestigious award in his professional specialty and is an author or coauthor on five 
professional scientific articles. (AE E) 
The disqualifying and mitigating information is discussed in the drug involvement 
and substance misuse analysis section, supra. The reasons for denial of Applicant’s 
access to classified information are more persuasive at this time. He used marijuana on 
several occasions from about from about March of 2023 to about December of 2024. He 
held a sensitive position while he was possessing and using marijuana. 
It is well settled that once a concern arises regarding an applicant’s security 
clearance eligibility, there is a strong presumption against granting a security clearance. 
See Dorfmont, 913 F. 2d at 1401. “[A] favorable clearance decision means that the record 
discloses no basis for doubt about an applicant’s eligibility for access to classified 
information.”  ISCR Case No. 18-02085 at 7 (App. Bd. Jan. 3, 2020) (citing ISCR Case 
No. 12-00270 at 3 (App. Bd. Jan. 17, 2014)). 
9 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
    
   
  
     
 
   
    
 
 
      
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
______________________ 
I have carefully applied the law, as set forth in Egan, Exec. Or. 10865, the Directive, 
the AGs, and the Appeal Board’s jurisprudence to the facts and circumstances in the 
context of the whole person. Applicant failed to mitigate drug involvement and substance 
misuse security concerns. 
This decision should not be construed as a determination that Applicant cannot or 
will not attain the state of true reform and rehabilitation necessary to be eligible for a 
security clearance. The determination of an individual’s eligibility and suitabilit y for a 
security clearance is not a once in a lifetime occurrence, but is based on applying the 
factors, both disqualifying and mitigating, to the evidence presented. Under his current 
circumstances, a clearance is not warranted. In the future, he may well demonstrate 
persuasive evidence of his security worthiness. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline H:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.
 a and 1.b:   Agai
nst Applicant 
Subparagraph 1.c:  For Applicant 
Conclusion  
Considering all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant Applicant eligibility for 
access to classified information. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Mark Harvey 
Administrative Judge 
10 