 
 
  
 
  
       DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
    DEFENSE  OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS     
           
             
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
     
     
         
   
 
    
    
   
      
  
 
 
 
______________ 
______________ 
In  the matter  of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR  Case No.  24-00832  
 )  
Applicant for  Security Clearance  )  
 
A
ppearances  
For Government: Aubrey De Angelis, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Sean Rogers, Esq. 
08/04/2025 
Decision  
DORSEY, Benjamin R., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant mitigated the personal conduct security concerns. Eligibility for access 
to classified information is granted. 
Statement  of the Case  
On August 6, 2024 , the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline E, personal 
conduct. Applicant responded to the SOR on August 15, 2024, and requested a hearing 
before an administrative judge. The case was assigned to me on February 14, 2025. 
The hearing was convened as scheduled on May 6, 2025. Government Exhibits 
(GE) 1 and 2 were admitted in evidence without objection. Applicant objected to the entry 
in evidence of a portion of GE 3, but I overruled his objection and admitted GE 3 in 
evidence. Applicant testified and submitted Appli cant Exhibits (AE) A through S, which 
were admitted in evidence without objection. DOHA received a transcript (Tr.) of the 
hearing on May 13, 2025. 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
     
  
   
   
 
 
  
 
      
    
     
  
 
     
 
  
  
  
    
  
   
     
Amendment to the SOR  
During the hearing, Department Counsel moved to amend the SOR by withdrawing 
SOR paragraph 1.b. There being no objection, I granted the motion to amend the SOR 
and paragraph 1.b was stricken. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a  44-year-old employee of a defense contractor (Company A). He has  
worked for his  current employer  since about  May 2023. He earned  a bachelor’s degree 
in 2014,  after  having been on the Dean’s List for multiple semesters. He was also a  
member of  a Greek  honor society. He has earned multiple professional information  
technology (IT) certifications. He has  been married since  2012. He has two children, ages  
10 and 9. He served  on active duty with the U.S.  Army from  about  April 2003 until  
February  2006. He was deployed to an active combat zone during his  Army service.  
Sometime in 2005, the Army sought to separate him for a pattern of misconduct, however  
the evidence is  unclear as  to the nature of  his military separation. There is evidence that  
he suffers from  post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) from  his military service. ( Tr. 18-
20, 55-57; GE 1, 2; AE A-E)  
From 2019 until about April 2023, Applicant worked for another government 
contractor (Company B). He traveled about three or four times per year while he worked 
for Company B. He was a manager and had supervisory responsibilities for employees 
who worked under him, including for travel. In February 2023, Applicant and two of the 
employees that he managed were required to travel across the country for a work 
conference. He and the two other employees had to quickly make arrangements for a 
hotel and airfare. Applicant testified that he only had three days to plan for the trip. His 
hotel options were limited because the trip was set to last for a couple of weeks , he 
needed to find a place where he and two other employees could stay, and the function 
for which they traveled had a large number of attendees. Additionally, there were other 
conventions taking place in the area during that time. Some of these same issues affected 
his choices and the cost of airfare, especially the lateness of the booking. After consulting 
with some co-workers, to avoid crowded conditions and a long wait for a rental car at the 
airport closest to the conference, he booked airfare into a larger airport farther from the 
conference, and then drove to the conference. (Tr. 22-38; GE 1-3; AE A-E) 
Applicant testified that Company B had a 300 percent policy that could be used for 
booking hotels and airfare. He claimed that, pursuant to this policy, Company B allowed 
for the booking of lodging and airfare for up to 300 percent of the allowable rate under 
certain exigent circumstances, such as booking near the travel date, or if no other options 
were available that were within the allowable rate. Company B later alleged that there 
were two such hotels available, but Applicant testified that he did not see them when he 
was looking for lodging. He testified that, e ven if he had seen them, there were other 
disqualifying factors, such as being located in a high crime zone, that he would have to 
consider before booking them. He employed the 300 percent policy and booked a hotel 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
     
   
   
   
 
    
     
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
    
    
 
    
    
   
      
  
 
  
 
 
   
      
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
and his airfare that were over the allowable rate. Company B had no policy for preapproval 
if the hotel or airfare purchased was over the allowable amount, nor did it have a process 
for preapproval for utilizing the 300 percent rule. After they requested his permission, he 
told the two other employees traveling with him that it was okay for them to book first -
class tickets because they had medical conditions that allowed for the upgrade. He told 
these two employees that they needed to be prepared to be ques tioned about the 
upgrade upon their return. Company B did question those two employees about their 
airfare upgrade when they returned to the office, but after they submitted notes from their 
doctors, Company B approved their upgrades. (Tr. 30-37, 43, 63-66; GE 2, 3) 
Applicant testified that, after a few weeks at the conference, Company B asked 
him and the two other employees to leave the conference one day early and come back 
to the office , because they were needed back at the office. He therefore had to find 
another flight on short notice. As he had time constraints for his wife to pick him up from 
the airport at home, he booked an early morning first-class flight departing from the same 
large airport at which he arrived. He testified that the first-class ticket was less expensive 
than the other two economy options that met his time requirements for allowing his wife 
to pick him up while managing their two young children. He also reserved a hotel room 
near the airport at which he arrived, so that he could drive there the night before and then 
have a short trip to the airport early the next morning. He testified that there were other 
hotels available further away from the airport that were within the per diem, but because 
he was unfamiliar with the area, and it was a 5:00 a.m. flight, he opted for the closer, more 
expensive hotel room. The cost of first -class airfare and the additional hotel room were 
both above the allowable limit, but within the 300 per cent rule. (Tr. 37-44; GE 2, 3) 
Applicant flew back home and went to the office the next day. The trip lasted from 
about February 24, 2023, through March 9, 2023. Company B later alleged that there was 
one other less expensive available flight that day that would have gotten him home about 
an hour and a half later than the one he took, but he testified that he only saw the three 
aforementioned flights. (Tr. 37-43, 63-66, 69-71, 77-78; GE 2, 3) 
Shortly after returning from his trip, in early March 2023, Applicant completed and 
submitted his expense report on Company B’s website. He uploaded all his claimed 
expenses, including an explanation for why the 300 percent rule should apply where he 
requested it. He also included information as to the various circumstances for why he 
made the purchasing decisions that he made. Sometime later that month, a Company B 
ethics officer contacted him, letting him know there were issues with the expenses from 
his trip. On April 5, 2023, the ethics officer conducted a phone interview with him regarding 
the potential issues Company B had with his claimed expenses. Just prior to the phone 
interview, Applicant heard that there were issues with some of the items he claimed for 
reimbursement, so he paid about $436 for those items with his own money. These items 
included two coolers, two $70 department store gift cards, two $20 video-game gift cards, 
and a $54 video- game controller, which he listed as “groceries.” He reportedly told the 
Company B investigator that he purchased those items to reach his allowable per diem . 
(Tr. 45-47, 73-77; GE 2, 3) 
3 
 
 
   
   
   
  
   
    
    
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
   
  
    
   
     
   
      
 
 
 
 
   
     
 
     
  
 
  
  
 
    
     
 
    
 
  
   
     
  
 
On April 21, 2023, Company B terminated Applicant’s employment for 
inappropriate conduct. The written notice read that, after an internal investigation, 
Company B found that he had instructed employees to book hotel/airfare over per diem. 
It also found that he had inappropriately used his company credit card for personal benefit 
while on this business trip. It found that his conduct violated several of Company B’s 
employment policies. He is not eligible for rehire. This termination decision was based 
upon Company B’s April 6, 2023 Report of Investigation (Company B ROI). The Company 
B ROI concluded that, while on company travel in February and March 2023, Applicant 
booked hotels and airfare that w ere over the allowable rate without prior approval and 
instructed his two employees to do the same. The Company B ROI also found that, on 
his expense report, Applicant misclassified as “groceries” the aforementioned personal 
items that were not appropriate for reimbursement. The Company B ROI reflects that 
Applicant complained about the differences between Government -permitted expenses 
and contractor-permitted expenses. The Company B ROI acknowledged that Applicant 
voluntarily paid about $436 to his company credit card to repay these personal expenses. 
(Tr. 20-23, 41-43, 50-53, 66-69, GE 2, 3) 
In hindsight, Applicant understands that he should not have claimed the gift cards 
and video- game controller. He testified that while he knew it was wrong, there was a 
systemic mindset at Company B that employees could claim up to their full per diem 
regardless of whether the expense was appropriate for reimbursement. He described it 
as “taking advantage of your per diem.” He testified that his manager advised him to do 
it when he started at Company B. He testified that in his attempt to let the ethics off icer 
know about the systemic problem with taking advantage of the per diem, he believed that 
she misinterpreted his intention, and that she thought he was trying to justify the practice. 
Before Company B terminated him, it provided additional training regarding appropriately 
claiming expenses for reimbursement. He regrets having used his per diem for 
unallowable expenses and is much more careful about making sure he follows the rules 
regardless of whether others are following them. (Tr. 47-51, 66-69, 72-73; GE 2, 3) 
While it is not alleged in the SOR, Company B also counseled Applicant in 
December 2022 for using derogatory language, including profanity, in an e-mail to another 
Company B employee. I will not use unalleged conduct for disqualification purposes. I will 
use it for appropriate purposes such as analyzing mitigation and my whole- person 
analysis. (GE 3) 
Applicant had three witnesses testify during his case in chief. They consisted of 
his current co-workers and a friend who is a pastor. His co-workers were generally aware 
of the issues regarding his security clearance, including his termination from Company B, 
and his issue with his expense report. They opined that Company B dismissing him for 
his conduct seems harsh. One of his co- workers has handled expense reports and their 
coverage in the past, although she acknowledged that she is not aware of whether 
Applicant knowingly violated Company B’s travel reimbursement policies. All three 
character-witnesses noted that he is honest, reliable, and hardworking. They believe that 
he should have his security clearance reinstated. (Tr. 41, 80-106; AE A, B, F-S) 
4 
 
 
     
   
   
  
     
  
 
 
 
   
      
    
    
 
 
    
  
  
      
   
 
 
   
   
    
  
      
      
 
 
 
   
     
 
      
     
  
    
     
 
    
   
   
  
    
     
Applicant also provided a multitude of character -evidence letters from friends, 
colleagues, a former landlord, and his family’s martial arts instructor, in which the authors 
noted that he shows integrity and is trustworthy and reliable. He has received several 
awards from both Company A and B, including an award for when he was on the business 
trip at issue in this matter. He completed several professional and security related training 
courses after his termination from Company B. He is active with his church and volunteers 
his time there. (Tr. 41, 80-106; AE A, B, F-S) 
Policies  
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines (AG ), which became 
effective on June 8, 2017. 
When evaluating an applicant ’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
5 
 
 
    
    
 
   
 
    
  
 
 
    
 
  
     
    
 
   
 
  
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
    
  
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline  E, Personal  Conduct  
The security concern for personal conduct is set out in AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to 
cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 16. The following is potentially applicable in this case: 
(d) credible adverse information that is not explicitly covered under any  
ot
her  guideline and may not be sufficient by itself for an adverse  
determination,  but which, when combined with all available information,  
supports a whole- person assessment  of questionable judgment,  
untrustworthiness,  unreliability, lack of candor, unwillingness to comply with 
rules and regulations,  or other characteristics indicating that the individual  
may  not properly safeguard classified or sensitive information.  This  
includes, but is not limited to, consideration of:  
(1) untrustworthy or  u nreliable behavior to include breach of client  
confidentiality, release of proprietary information, unauthorized  
release of sensitive corporate or government  protected information;  
(2) any disruptive, violent,  or  other inappropriate behavior;  
(3)  a pattern of di shonesty or rule violations;  and  
(4) evidence of significant  m isuse of  Government or other  
employer’s time or resources.  
In an ex
pense report that Applicant submitted to his employer, Company B, he 
intentionally mislabeled unallowable expenses for personal gain. He expensed hotels and 
airfare that cost over the allowable limit. He also advised employees he managed to book 
6 
 
 
      
 
 
     
  
 
 
 
    
  
    
  
  
    
  
 
  
   
 
   
    
  
  
  
    
 
 
     
      
   
  
   
   
 
      
   
  
 
hotel and airfare that were over per diem. Company B terminated him for this conduct. 
AG ¶ 16(d) is established. 
AG ¶ 17 provides conditions that could mitigate personal conduct security 
concerns. The following mitigating conditions potentially apply in Applicant's case: 
(c) the offense is so  m
 inor,  or so much time has passed, or the behavior is  
so infrequent, or it happened under such unique circumstances that  it  is 
unlikely to recur  and  does not cast doubt  on the individual's reliability,  
trustworthiness, or  good judgment;  and  
(d) the individual has acknowledged the behavior and obtained counseling  
t
o change the behavior or taken other positive steps to alleviate the  
stressors, circumstances or factors that contributed to untrustworthy,  
unreliable, or other inappropriate behavior, and such behavior is unlikely to  
recur.  
It
 has been over two years since Applicant engaged in this disqualifying conduct. 
He claimed that he has learned from the experience and is more careful with following 
employer policies regardless of whether others are doing so. His reputation at his current 
employer, as evidenced by witness testimony and employer award recognition, supports 
this claim. He has undergone relevant security training after his disqualifying conduct. 
Available evidence shows only two instances where Applicant has been counseled since 
he left the Army in 2005, so his conduct is infrequent. 
I note the distinction between Applicant’s conduct involving spending more than 
the allowable rate for hotel and airfare (and advising his employees to do the same) 
versus mislabeling unallowable expenses such as gift cards and a video-game controller 
as groceries. I find the former conduct was relatively minor as it was largely contributed 
to by a lack of clear guidance at Company B as to when utilizing the 300 percent rule was 
appropriate. This finding is bolstered by the fact that Company B provided additional 
training regarding travel between the trip in question and Applicant’s termination. I also 
note that Applicant’s subordinate employees were ultimately reimbursed for their first -
class airfare, yet Company B relied upon Applicant’s instructions to expense this airfare 
as a basis for his termination. 
Applicant acknowledged that he should not have expensed some of the items he 
claimed, including gift cards and a video-game controller. He paid those expenses back. 
While Applicant knew that his conduct in claiming his personal items and taking 
advantage of his per diem was inappropriate, even this conduct was contributed to by a 
lack of proper direction by Company B. Evidence shows that his manager told him it was 
okay to claim up to his full per diem for expenses , and the practice was common. This 
consideration does not excuse the conduct, but it does tend to diminish his culpability. 
Regardless, of the more serious nature of his mislabeling of expenses , the 
aforementioned mitigating evidence is still established. AG ¶¶ 17(c) and 17(d) are 
applicable. 
7 
 
 
 
  
 
    
   
 
 
   
  
   
  
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
      
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
        
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) T he nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. I have incorporated my 
comments under Guideline E in my whole-person analysis. I have considered his military 
service, including in a combat zone, his employment recognition, and his many positive 
character-references from both his work and social life. I believe the evidence reflects a 
generally honest and reliable individual who made a mistake, learned from it, and will not 
make a similar one again. I find that his past behavior does not cast doubt on his current 
reliability, trustworthiness, and good judgment. I find he mitigated the personal conduct 
security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline E:   FOR APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 1.a:   For Applicant  
Conclusion  
It is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a 
security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Benjamin R. Dorsey 
Administrative Judge 
8 