 
 
  
 
  
        
         
           
             
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
   
  
 
  
    
    
  
   
   
    
  
  
 
   
 
   
     
___________ 
___________ 
DEPAR
TMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of:  )  
 )  
               )   ISCR Case No. 24-01306  
  )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance   )  
 
Appearances  
For Government: Andre M. Gregorian, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Alan Edmunds, Esq. 
06/23/2025 
Decision 
BENSON, Pamela C., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to demonstrate that he has acted responsibly to address and 
resolve his financial delinquencies. He did not provide sufficient evidence to mitigate the 
financial considerations security concerns. National security eligibility for access to 
classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On July 10 , 2023, Applicant completed an Electronic Questionnaires for 
Investigations Processing or security clearance application (SCA). On September 18, 
2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) issued a statement 
of reasons (SOR) to Applicant under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960); Department of Defense (DOD) 
Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program 
(Directive) (January 2, 1992), as amended; and Security Executive Agent Directive 4, 
establishing in Appendix A, the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining 
Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility t o Hold a Sensitive Position 
(AGs), effective June 8, 2017. 
The SOR detailed reasons why the DCSA did not find under the Directive that it is 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant a security clearance for 
 
 
   
  
   
   
  
 
      
   
    
    
    
    
 
 
       
   
 
     
  
     
    
  
  
 
 
  
    
      
     
  
  
    
  
 
    
     
     
 
    
     
  
 
  
   
   
Applicant and recommended referral to an administrative judge to determine whether a 
clearance should be granted, continued, denied, or revoked. Specifically, the SOR set 
forth security concerns arising under Guideline F . Applicant responded to the SOR on 
November 13, 2024 (Answer), and he requested an administrative judge issue a decision 
based on the administrative record. 
On December 20, 2024, Department Counsel submitted a file of relevant material 
(FORM), which included Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 8. The FORM was provided 
to Applicant on January 17, 2025, and he had 30 days to respond to the FORM, file any 
objections or provide additional information. Applicant did not respond to the 
Government’s FORM or provide any additional information. I admitted into evidence G E 
1 through 8, without objection. 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s Answer, he admitted to all of the SOR allegations. (SOR ¶¶ 1.a 
through 1.n.) His admissions are accepted as findings of fact. 
Applicant is 57 years old. He attended college from 2009 through 2011 but did not 
earn enough credits for a college degree. According to his J uly 2023 SCA, he is twice 
divorced, currently unmarried, and he is the father of twin adult daughters. He is in a 
relationship a woman who resides in Mexico. A federal contractor is sponsoring him for 
a security clearance. This is Applicant’s first application for a DOD security clearance. 
(GE 3) 
Financial Considerations  
The SOR alleges 13 delinquent accounts totaling approximately $31,345, and a 
prior Chapter 7 bankruptcy. Applicant attributes his financial problems to his divorce and 
unemployment; however, the debts also appear to stem from the financial assistance he 
provides to his girlfriend in Mexico. He disclosed his 2017 Chapter 7 Bankruptcy on the 
July 2023 SCA, but he did not disclose any of his delinquent accounts, as required. He 
has not submitted any documentation with his Answer or in response to the Government’s 
FORM, showing that he has taken responsible action to resolve any of the alleged 
delinquent accounts. (GE 3, 8) 
SOR ¶ 1. a alleges Applicant filed for Chapter 7 Bankruptcy in November 2017. 
This bankruptcy was discharged in February 2018. He listed on his bankruptcy petition 
that his estimated liabilities totaled between $100,000-$500,000. (GE 2, 3, 4, 5, 7) 
SOR ¶ 1.b alleges Applicant is indebted to OLIPHSNT USA for an account that 
has been charged off in the approximate amount of $6,288 . This debt remains 
unresolved. (GE 2, 4, 5) 
SOR ¶ 1.c alleges Applicant is indebted to MIDLAND CREDIT MANAGEMENT for 
an account placed for collection in the approximate amount of $5,689. This debt remains 
unresolved. (GE 2, 4, 5) 
2 
 
 
 
    
   
  
 
     
  
   
 
      
  
 
 
   
  
   
 
       
   
   
 
      
   
   
 
    
  
 
   
  
   
 
    
  
   
 
     
     
 
    
    
 
  
   
      
 
   
SOR ¶ 1. d alleges Applicant is indebted to PROGRESO FINANCIERO for an 
account that has been charged off in the approximate amount of $4,799. This debt 
remains unresolved. (GE 2, 4, 5) 
SOR ¶ 1. e alleges Applicant is indebted to NCB CREDIT MANAGEMENT 
SERVICES for an account placed for collection in the approximate amount of $4,525. 
This debt remains unresolved. (GE 2, 4, 5) 
SOR ¶ 1 .f alleges Applicant is indebted to MOBILOANS for an account that has 
been charged off in the approximate amount of $ 2,781. This debt remains unresolved. 
(GE 2, 4, 5) 
SOR ¶ 1.g alleges Applicant is indebted to SECURITY CREDIT SYSTEMS for an 
account placed for collection in the approximate amount of $2, 268. This debt remains 
unresolved. (GE 2, 4, 5) 
SOR ¶ 1.h alleges Applicant is indebted to FIRST NATIONAL BANK for an account 
that has been charged off in the approximate amount of $518 . This debt remains 
unresolved. (GE 2, 4, 5) 
SOR ¶ 1.i alleges Applicant is indebted to FIRST SAVINGS BANK for an account 
that has been charged off in the approximate amount of $477 . This debt remains 
unresolved. (GE 2, 4, 5) 
SOR ¶ 1.j alleges Applicant is indebted to IC SYSTEM for an account placed for 
collection in the approximate amount of $171. This debt remains unresolved. (GE 2, 4, 5) 
SOR ¶ 1. k alleges Applicant is indebted to COMENITY CAPITAL BANK for an 
account that has been charged off in the approximate amount of $868. This debt remains 
unresolved. (GE 2, 4, 5) 
SOR ¶ 1.l alleges Applicant is indebted to UPSTART NETWORK for an account 
that has been charged off in the approximate amount of $ 1,026. This debt remains 
unresolved. (GE 2, 4, 5) 
SOR ¶ 1.m alleges Applicant is indebted to CREDIT ONE BANK for a delinquent 
account in the approximate amount of $627. This debt remains unresolved. (GE 2, 4, 5) 
SOR ¶ 1.n alleges Applicant is indebted to LOANME for a delinquent account in 
the approximate amount of $4,060. This debt remains unresolved. (GE 2, 4, 5) 
During Applicant’s August 2023 background interview, the investigator confronted 
Applicant with his undisclosed delinquent debts. Applicant explained he did intentionally 
omit these delinquent accounts on his July 2023 SCA, but stated these accounts were 
not disclosed due to oversight. He promised that he would contact these overdue 
creditors and arrange payment plans. (GE 8) 
3 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
   
   
     
 
 
     
     
 
 
  
  
   
    
 
   
 
  
 
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
Policies  
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion of the Executive 
Branch in regulating access to information pertaining to national security emphasizing, 
“no one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 
518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual 
is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The President 
has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicant’s eligibility for 
access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly consistent with the 
national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation 
about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Clearance 
decisions must be “in terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a 
determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 § 7. 
Thus, nothing in this decision should be construed to suggest that it is based, in whole or 
in part, on any express or implied determination about applicant’s allegiance, loyalty, or 
patriotism. It is merely an indication the applicant has not met the strict guidelines the 
President, Secretary of Defense, and Director of National Intelligence have established 
for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 95 -0611 at 2 
(App. Bd. May 2, 1996). 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
  
   
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
    
 
     
    
   
  
  
 
    
  
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial  
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶  E3.1.15. An applicant “has  the ultimate burden of  demonstrating that it  
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant  or continue his [or  her] security  
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01- 20700 at  3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). The burden of  
disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the Government.  See  ISCR Case No. 02-
31154 at  5 (App. Bd.  Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  Egan, 484 U.S. at 531;  see  AG  ¶ 2(b).   
Analysis  
Guideline F: Financial Considerations  
The concern under Guideline F (Financial considerations) is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds . . . . 
This concern is broader than the possibility that a person might knowingly 
compromise classified information to raise money. It encompasses concerns about a 
person’s self-control, judgment, and other qualities essential to protecting classified 
information. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible, 
unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding classified information. 
The record evidence of Applicant’s delinquent debts and his admissions establish 
the following disqualifying conditions under AG ¶ 19: 
(a) inability to satisfy  d
 ebts;  and  
(c) a history of not  m eeting financial  obligations.  
AG
 ¶ 20 describes conditions that could mitigate security concerns. The following 
are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
und
er such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast doubt  
on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good judgment;   
5 
 
 
 
 
 
     
    
   
 
   
     
    
 
    
   
        
      
  
 
      
  
    
    
 
   
     
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial  pr
 oblem were largely beyond  
the per son's  control (e.g.,  loss of  employment, a business downturn,  
unexpected medical  emergency, a death, divorce or separation, clear  
victimization by  predatory  lending practi ces, or identity theft),  and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;   
(c) the individual  has  received or is receiving financial counseling for the  
problem  from  a legitimate and credible, source such as  a non-profit credit  
counseling service,  and there are clear indications that the problem is being  
resolved or is under control;  and  
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- f aith effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.   
Appl
icant bears the burden of production and persuasion in mitigation. An 
applicant is not held to a standard of perfection in his or her debt -resolution efforts or 
required to be debt -free. “Rather, all that is required is that an applicant act responsibl y 
given his circumstances and develop a reasonable plan for repayment, accompanied by 
‘concomitant conduct,’ that is, actions which evidence a serious intent to effectuate the 
plan.” ISCR Case No. 15-02903 at 3 (App. Bd. Mar. 9, 2017). See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 
13-00987 at 3, n. 5 (App. Bd. Aug. 14, 2014). 
Given the facts, it is clear that Applicant promised to start paying down his 
delinquent debts when confronted with them during his August 2023 background 
interview. To date, he has not provided any information that he has paid, is in the process 
of paying, or that he has made arrangements to resolve any of the 1 3 delinquent debts 
listed in the SOR. 
None of the mitigating conditions can be applied here. Applicant attributed his 
financial delinquencies to divorce and unemployment, which are circumstances beyond 
his control. Notwithstanding the events that affected his finances, Applicant must 
demonstrate that he acted responsibly under the circumstances. He did not provide 
sufficient information to mitigate the financial concerns in this case. Overall, I find that 
Applicant has not demonstrated that he acted responsibly to address his financial 
delinquencies, or that his finances are currently under control. Applicant did not provide 
sufficient evidence to mitigate the financial considerations security concerns. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the Applicant’s 
conduct and all the circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
6 
 
 
      
  
   
  
  
    
 
   
     
     
  
  
 
  
  
      
  
 
 
    
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_________________________ 
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.   
Under AG ¶ 2(c), “[t]he ultimate determination” of whether to grant a security 
clearance “must be an overall common-sense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines” and the whole- person concept. My comments under Guideline F are 
incorporated in my whole- person analysis. Some of the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) were 
addressed under those guidelines but some warrant additional comment. 
Applicant’s financial difficulties are recent, ongoing, and not isolated. There is no 
evidence that he has sought recent credit counseling or otherwise contacted his creditors 
to arrange repayment schedules for his delinquent debts, despite his promise to do so 
during his August 2023 background interview. As such, his financial troubles are not 
under control. 
I have carefully applied the law, as set forth in Egan, Exec. Or. 10865, the Directive, 
the AGs, and the Appeal Board’s jurisprudence to the facts and circumstances in the 
context of the whole person. Applicant failed to mitigate the Guideline F ( financial 
considerations) security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  Guideline F:     AG
 AINST  APPLICANT   
Subparagraphs 1.a  - 1.n:     Against  Applicant  
Conclusion  
In l
ight of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, I conclude 
that it is not clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant Applicant ’s 
eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Pamela C. Benson 
Administrative Judge 
7 