 
 
 
                                                              
                         
          
           
             
 
 
  
  
      
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
    
 
 
  
    
   
     
       
 
    
  
     
     
       
 
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 24-00362 
Appearances  
For Government: Cynthia Ruckno, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
09/11/2025 
Decision 
LAFAYE, Gatha, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant mitigated the security concerns under Guidelines D (sexual behavior) 
and E (personal conduct), but failed to mitigate the security concerns under Guideline J 
(criminal conduct). Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on September 2, 2022. 
On October 11, 2024, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of Reasons 
(SOR) alleging security concerns under Guidelines J, D, and E. Applicant answered the 
SOR on November 20, 2024 (Answer) and elected to have his case decided on the written 
record in lieu of a hearing. The case was assigned to me on June 6, 2025. 
The Government’s written case was submitted on January 16, 2025. A complete 
copy of the file of relevant material (FORM) was provided to Applicant, who was given an 
opportunity to file objections and submit material to refute, extenuate, or mitigate the 
security concerns. Applicant received the FORM on March 2, 2025, and did not object to 
the Government’s evidence, but submitted an email memorandum to support his case in 
mitigation. 
 
 
 
 
 
    
     
  
 
 
 
    
      
     
   
 
 
 
     
   
   
      
 
    
     
       
     
   
      
    
       
     
   
 
 
Evidence  
Government Exhibit (GE) 1 and GE 2 consist of the SOR and Applicant’s Answer. 
GE 3 through GE 14 are admitted in evidence without objection. Applicant’s response to 
the FORM is marked as Applicant Exhibit (AE) A and admitted in evidence without 
objection. 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s Answer, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.g, 2.a, 
and 3.a, but denied the allegation in SOR ¶ 2.b. Applicant’s admissions are incorporated 
in my findings of fact. After thorough review of the evidence, I make the following 
additional findings of fact. 
Applicant is  34 years old.  He earned his high school diploma in May  2009. He 
continued to work  part-time  as a line cook after graduation until  2012  when  began he 
working as  a  general  laborer for a  private company.  He attended  college  part time  during 
the spring of 2012, 2014, and  the  fall  of 2016  but  has  not yet completed a degree. (GE 3, 
4)  Applicant  first married in 2009, divorced in 2010, and remarried  the same woman in  
July 2018.  He and his wife have two  sons, ages  15 and 8  years.  (GE 5) In his SOR  
Answer,  Applicant  said they  divorced again in 2023, he has custody  of the children, and  
his  now  ex-wife  pays $100 monthly  for  child support.  (SOR Answer) He did not submit  
documentary evidence to support these assertions.  
Applicant has worked as an Information Technology (IT) technician for a defense 
contractor since December 2020. He previously worked as an IT technician for a different 
defense contractor from August 2018 through December 2020, when the previous 
defense contractor lost the contract bid. (GE 3, 5) 
In September 2018, Applicant completed his first SCA. A favorable determination 
was made and he was granted security clearance eligibility in late 2018. He completed a 
new SCA in September 2022 after changing jobs. In Section 22 – Police Record, he 
disclosed prior police record incidents that occurred in 2014, 2020, and 2021. (GE 3, 4) 
In 2014, he said he was charged with “text message harassment to ex-girlfriend” and he 
said that the charges were “dropped in court by (the) judge.” (GE 3 at 32) In August 2020, 
he said his ”ex-girlfriend pressed harassment charges against me for sending her a friend 
request on the ‘LinkedIn’ website.” (Id.) In June 2021, he disclosed being charged with 
harassment of his wife, and commented as follows: “My wife and I got into an argument 
and her sister called the police.” (GE 3 at 33-34) 
Under Guideline J,  the SOR alleges seven incidents of  criminal conduct  between 
2010 and 2021.  Applicant  has a  history of being arrested  and  charged  with  3rd  degree  
domestic  violence and harassment  incidents  involving his  wife, ex-girlfriend  (X1), and  a 
previous  ex-girlfriend (X2).  In  2022,  Applicant  was convicted of  domestic  
violence/harassment of his wife and sentenced,  which is discussed more fully  below.  
2 
 
 
 
 
      
       
   
   
 
    
   
    
       
   
    
 
 
 
 
  
          
    
     
      
   
   
   
 
 
In March 2010, Applicant was arrested, charged with 3rd degree domestic violence 
and harassment (SOR ¶ 1.a). He had a heated argument with his wife. There was name-
calling and shoving, and police officers were called . He was arrested and said his wife 
was arrested too. The case was dismissed at his wife’s request. (GE 11; SOR Answer) 
In July 2013, Applicant was arrested and charged with domestic violence and 
harassment (SOR ¶ 1.b). The victim , a previous ex -girlfriend (X2) said he attac ked her 
because he wanted his cell phone back . Police observed scars on her neck, bruises on 
her left forearm and a lighter burn. Applicant claimed that X2 admitted, in front of his 
attorney, that she falsely pressed charges in order to “get her belongings back.” Applicant 
was required to pay a fee and the case was dismissed on motion of the prosecutor. (GE 
10; SOR Answer) 
In August 2013,  Applicant was  arrested and charged with 3 rd  degree domestic  
violence  and harassment  against  X2  a second time  (SOR  ¶ 1.c) . Police officers  
responded  to complaints of  physical  fighting n ear a highway  and upon arrival  found only 
victim X2 on the scene. S he said she got into a physical  altercation with Applicant  and 
when she stopped  the car, Applicant forcibly  removed her  keys  from the ignition  and her  
phone. He bi t her  right  forearm,  exited the car, threw  her keys  and phone  in  a field in 
opposite directions  and walked away  with  his minor child.  Police  officers located Applicant  
and he confirmed  X2’s account of the events  but claimed she bit him too. Police officers  
noted self-inflicted bite marks on  his upper right wrist  and  arrested  him  on the scene.  (GE  
9  at 9)  Applicant’s account of  events in his  SOR  Answer  contradicts  statements he made 
to the police at the time.  He  paid court costs,  agreed to undisclosed  required pre-
conditions, and the case was dismissed on the prosecutor’s  motion. (GE 9; SOR Answer)  
I
n April 2014, Applicant was charged with communicating threats of domestic 
violence (SOR ¶ 1.d). A more recent ex-girlfriend, X1, filed a complaint with police stating 
that Applicant contacted her and threatened to kill her and her family . Police officers 
interviewed him and he admitted he sent threatening messages to X1 and her mother 
because he was upset. He also admitted to intentionally damaging X1’s phone and police 
were unable to extract images. Prosecution was declined. Applicant’s account of events 
in his SOR Answer contradicts statements he made to police officers conducting the 
interview. (GE 14; SOR Answer) 
In  about  January  2016, Applicant was charged with  3rd  degree domestic violence 
and harassment for multiple instances  of unwanted, inappropriate texts, calls,  messages,  
sending an explicit image  of his  genitals, and making verbal threats to kill  victim  X1  and 
her child after  being told not to communicate with her (SOR ¶ 1.e).  X1 said she  dated 
Applicant for about six months two years earlier,  that he continues to contact her  and that  
he sent her a photo of his  genitals  on her  birthday.  Applicant was found not guilty  at trial. 
(GE 8 ) In his Answer, Applicant admitted  he sent X1 a photo of  his  genitals  on her  
birthday. He said they had an “unhealthy  cycle  of on-and-off contact” since the breakup  
but denied threatening her, and expressed regret  for  sending the photo.  (SOR Answer)  
3 
 
 
 
 
    
   
   
  
   
 
    
      
    
      
      
   
    
    
  
 
  
    
    
    
       
   
     
  
   
 
    
      
        
 
   
 
   
     
     
    
  
  
    
 
 
   
  
  
    
 
In September 2020, police officers responded to a domestic dispute at Applicant’s 
home. His wife stated they had been in a verbal altercation. Officers observed redness 
under his wife’s eye and a bloody fingernail. Both parties denied having a physical 
altercation. Officers observed both parties were highly intoxicated, and they agreed to 
separate within the home. No arrests were made. (GE 13) 
In June 2021, Applicant was arrested and charged with 3 rd degree domestic 
violence and harassment (SOR 1.f). Applicant’s wife had face-timed a family friend and 
said she was being beaten at home and not allowed to leave. Police officers arrived at 
the residence, and after initially hesitating to speak, his wife said the last three days had 
been really bad. She described being thrown to the floor, and choked with Applicant’s 
forearm over her throat. When she was able to get away, she said she face- timed her 
friend for help. When police arrived, she was afraid to open the door and to talk to them 
because she feared what Applicant might do. She opened the door when her friend kept 
calling. (GE 7) 
Police officers spoke to Applicant, who denied any physical altercation had 
occurred and claimed that they were arguing about finances, but he would not provide his 
account of the events. Police officers observed physical injuries on his wife’s arms and 
throat, and on the scene medics responded and treated the victim. Applicant was arrested 
at the scene and placed in jail as ordered by a magistrate. Applicant was restrained and 
enjoined from contacting victim, communicating any threats, and from possessing any 
firearms as conditions of his bonded release. In January 2022, he pled guilty to 
harassment, was sentenced to 180 days jail (suspended for one year), paid a cash bond, 
and was ordered to attend anger management training. (GE 7) 
In his Answer, Applicant admitted the allegation, stating this was a very difficult 
time for him. He claimed his wife was an alcoholic and that she “had severe anger 
problems.” He claimed he was arrested because his wife had a bruise that she caused 
herself, that he pled guilty because he did not have money to hire an attorney and that he 
“could not bring himself to testify against (his) own wife.” (SOR Answer) 
On June 22, 2021, Applicant’s ex -girlfriend X1 went to the police station and 
complained of harassing communications by the Applicant. X1 informed police she told 
Applicant on August 20, 2020 to never contact her again “by any means whatsoever .” 
She complained of receiving a LinkedIn contact request from Applicant on June 18, 2021. 
She told police she remains in constant fear that Applicant will find out where she lives 
and harm her and her unborn child, and that she has been dealing with his constant 
harassment for about seven years and she wants it to stop. The police officer re peated 
what X1 told the magistrate: 
He has continued to harass me over the years, and most recently tried to 
seek out my place of employment, and contacted me via LinkedIn to 
correspond with him. I would like a protection of abuse order and 
communications harassment charge on him to deter any future 
engagements. (GE 6 at 7) 
4 
 
 
 
 
     
     
     
    
   
      
   
 
 
     
  
    
     
   
  
  
  
     
       
      
     
 
  
  
    
  
   
   
    
 
  
   
 
   
   
  
 
 
      
    
 
 
The record shows that Applicant was arrested on June 21, 2021 as a result of X1’s 
complaint to the magistrate, stated above. (GE 6 at 11, 13) He was arrested again in 
September 2021 and charged with harassing communication related to the LinkedIn 
account communication (SOR ¶ 1.g) . The court “was not reasonably assured that the 
defendant would appear as required and/or the defendant’s being at large does not pose 
a real and present danger to others or to the public.” (GE 6 at 10, 12) Applicant was to be 
released only upon compliance with the following conditions: 
 Execution of an appearance bond of $500;  
 To have no contact with the victim  
 whatsoever directly or indirectly.  (Id.)  
Appli
cant signed the acknowledgment of the magistrate’s order on September 3, 
2021. Applicant pled not guilty, testimony was taken in January 2022, and the no contact 
order remained in place. In March 2024, the charge was dismissed but the no contact 
order has remained in place. (GE 6 at 4) In his Answer, Applicant admitted sending the 
LinkedIn request but stated he did not know it was going to X 1 until it was too late. He 
said he made “zero” contact with her and that the case was dismissed because he did 
not commit a crime. (SOR Answer) 
Under Guideline D, the SOR cross-alleges SOR ¶ 1.e, which concerns Applicant 
sending an explicit image of his genitals to the victim (SOR ¶ 2.a), which he admitted. 
Applicant denied the allegation in SOR 2.b, which alleges he sent an extended relative a 
photo of his genitals to her “OnlyFans” account. 
In November 2020, an extended relative contacted police alleging Applicant sent 
a photo of his genitals to her OnlyFans account before she realized who she was 
messaging. She alleged he showed up at her mother’s residence and startled her by 
banging on the door while everyone was sleeping. Police were called, Applicant claimed 
he was there to see the relative’s mother who is elderly, and he was ordered to leave. 
The relative says she feels alarmed by his communications, she asked him to stop and 
she feels he is following her. The case status was reported as “inactive.” (GE 12) 
In his Answer, Applicant denied the allegation. He said he told his wife and her 
relative that he did everything he could to prove the image was not of him. He said: 
I showed them my bank accounts. I made every effort to prove my 
innocence. I even made side-by-side picture comparisons of mine and this 
(person’s) face and p**is to prove to my wife that it was not me. (SOR 
Answer) 
Lastly, the SOR cross-alleges the entirety of the SOR allegations under Guideline 
E (SOR ¶ 3.a), which Applicant admits. 
Applicant acknowledged his  aberrant  behavior  and  past  mistakes  and said he has  
learned and matured from  them. He  sought  professional help  and is currently in treatment.  
His counselor  said he  is in a stable relationship  and that he maintains  an amicable co-
5 
 
 
 
 
      
   
 
 
  
    
    
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
    
 
   
  
    
      
 
 
 
  
   
 
     
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
   
   
   
 
  
  
 
parenting relations hip with his ex -wife. She favorably endorsed hi s application for a 
security clearance. (AE A) 
Policies  
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines (AG), which became 
effective on June 8, 2017. 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified infor mation. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
6 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
  
 
 
 
   
 
   
   
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
      
       
     
    
 
Secti
on 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
 Guideline J, Criminal Conduct   
The s
ecurity concern for criminal conduct is described in AG ¶ 30: 
Criminal activity creates doubt about an Appellant’s judgment, reliability, 
and trustworthiness. By its very nature, it calls into question a person’s 
ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules and regulations. 
Applicant’s admissions and the evidence in this case establish the following 
disqualifying conditions under AG ¶ 31. 
AG  ¶  31(a): a pattern of  minor
  offenses,  any one of  which on i ts own would  
be unlikely to affect a national security eligibility decision, but which in  
combination cast doubt  on the individual's judgment, reliability, or  
trustworthiness; and  
AG ¶  31(b):  evidence (including, but not limited to, a credible allegation,  an  
admi
ssion, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of  
whether the individual  was formally charged,  prosecuted, or convicted.  
Conditi
ons that could mitigate criminal conduct security concerns are provided 
under AG ¶ 32. The following are potentially applicable: 
AG  ¶ 32 (a): so much time has  elapse d since the criminal behavior  
happened,  or it happened under such unusual circumstances, that it is  
unlikely to recur  and  does not cast doubt  on the individual’s reliability,  
trustworthiness, or  good judgment; and  
AG  ¶ 32(d):  there is  evidence of successful rehabilitation; including,  but  not  
l
imited t o,  the passage of time without  recurrence of  criminal activity,  
restitution, compliance with the terms of parole or probation, job training or  
higher  education, good employment record, or constructive community  
involvement.  
AG ¶¶ 32(a) and 32(
d) are established for SOR ¶ 1.a due to the passage of time. 
Applicant was a 19-year-old, newly married father of a young child at the time of the 2010 
domestic dispute. It was the first reported domestic dispute incident with his wife, who 
also shared responsibility for the incident. SOR ¶ 1.a is mitigated by time. 
7 
 
 
 
 
     
    
     
       
     
      
   
  
 
 
    
     
    
 
  
  
   
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
     
       
     
    
 
 
   
 
AG ¶¶ 32(a) and 32(d) are not fully established for the criminal conduct alleged in 
SOR ¶¶ 1.b through 1.g, despite the passage of time for the 2013 through 2016 incidents. 
Applicant’s impulsive and irresponsible behavior evidenced by his multiple domestic 
violence and harassment incidents against his last three domestic partners between 2013 
and his last court administrative action in 2024, shows the continuation of a pattern of 
abusive behavior that has not been adequately address ed or resolved. His actions and 
criminal conduct reflect extremely poor judgment and raise serious questions about his 
trustworthiness, reliability, and overall suitability for a security clearance. 
Guideline D, Sexual  Behavior   
SOR ¶ 2.a cross- alleges the conduct alleged in SOR ¶ 1. e, and relates to 
Applicant’s transmission of an explicit photo of himself. The security concern for sexual 
behavior is described in AG ¶ 12: 
Sexual behavior that involves a criminal offense; reflects a lack of judgment 
or discretion; or may subject the individual to undue influence of coercion, 
exploitation, or duress . These issues, together or individually, may raise  
questions  about an individual's  judgment,  reliability, trustworthiness, and 
ability to protect classified or sensitive information. Sexual behavior 
includes conduct occurring in person or via audio, visual, electronic, or 
written transmission. No adverse inference concerning the standards in this 
Guideline may be raised solely on the basis of the sexual orientation of the 
individual. 
The following disqualifying conditions are potentially applicable under AG ¶ 13: 
AG ¶ 13(a):  sexual behavior of  a cr
 iminal nature, whether or not the  
individual has been prosecuted;  
AG ¶ 13(c): sexual behavior that causes an individual to be vulnerable to  
coer
cion,  exploitation,  or duress; and  
AG ¶ 13(d): sexual behavior  of  a publ ic  nature or that reflects  lack of  
discretion or  judgment.  
The abov
e disqualifying conditions are established by Applicant’s admissions and 
the evidence submitted in this case for SOR ¶ 2.a. His transmission of an explicit photo 
of h imself to victim X1 on her birthday was unwanted, criminal in nature, made him 
vulnerable to coercion, exploitation, and duress, and reflected poor judgment. AG ¶ 13 is 
not established for SOR ¶ 2.b , which Applicant denied and the record evidence is 
insufficient to establish. 
The following mitigating conditions are potentially applicable under AG ¶ 14: 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
   
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
     
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
AG ¶ 14(b):  the sexual behavior  happen
 ed so long ago, so infrequently, or  
under such unusual  circumstances, that it is  unlikely to recur and does not  
cast doubt on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or  
judgment;  
AG  ¶ 14 (c ):  the behavior no longer serves as a basis for coercion,  
ex
ploitation,  or  duress; and  
AG  ¶ 14( d):  the sexual behavior is strictly private, consensual, and discreet.  
AG ¶¶ 14(
b) and 14(c) are established to mitigate SOR ¶ 2.a. Applicant expressed 
deep regret for sending a photo of his genitals to X1 on her birthday. He used extremely 
poor judgment in doing so , but the event occurred about 10 years ago and there is no 
indication that he repeated this action. AG ¶ 14(d) is not established given Applicant’s 
lack of discretion and judgment demonstrated in this instance. 
Guideline E,  Personal Conduct  
The security concern under this guideline is described in AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to 
provide truthful and candid answers during the security clearance process 
or any other failure to cooperate with the security clearance process. 
AG ¶ 16 describes conditions that could raise a security concern and may 
be disqualifying. The following disqualifying conditions are potentially applicable: 
AG ¶ 16(c):  credible adverse information in several adjudicative issue areas  
that
 is not sufficient for an adverse determination under any other single  
guideline, but which, when considered as a whole,  supports a whole-person  
assessment of questionable judgment, untrustworthiness, unreliability, lack  
of candor,  unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations, or other  
characteristics indicating that the individual may not properly safeguard  
classified  or sensitive information;  
AG  ¶ 16(d ):  credible adverse information that is not  ex plicitly covered under  
any other guideline and may not be sufficient by itself for an adverse  
determination,  but which, when combined with all available information,  
supports a whole- person assessment  of questionable judgment,  
untrustworthiness,  unreliability, lack of candor, unwillingness to comply with 
rules and regulations,  or other characteristics indicating that the individual  
may  not properly safeguard classified or sensitive information.  This  
9 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
        
     
  
     
    
    
    
     
 
         
     
    
    
     
   
       
    
 
    
 
 
 
       
  
        
     
  
     
 
 
includes, but is not limited to, consideration of: (2) any disruptive, violent, or 
other inappropriate behavior; and 
AG ¶ 16( e):  personal  c
 onduct, or concealment of information about one's  
conduct, that creates  a  vulnerability to exploitation,  manipulation, or  duress  
by a foreign intelligence entity or other individual or group. Such conduct  
includes:  (1) engaging in activities which, if known, could affect  the person's  
personal, professional, or community standing.  
AG ¶¶ 16 (c
) and 16(d) are not established. SOR ¶ 3.a cross-alleges every 
allegation in the SOR under Guideline E , and AG ¶ 16(c) requires “credible adverse 
information in several adjudicative areas that is not sufficient for an adverse determination 
under any other single guidelin e ….” Similarly, AG ¶ 16(d) requires “credible adverse 
information that is not explicitly covered under any other guideline and may not be 
sufficient by itself for an adverse determination …. ” Applicant’s conduct is already 
adequately addressed under Guideline J, and making an independent assessment of the 
same conduct under AG ¶¶ 16(c) and 16(d), is duplicitous and unnecessary. 
However, Applicant’s conduct as under AG ¶ 16(e) is established. Applicant has a 
history of engaging in domestic violence that spanned more than a decade. Some of the 
incidents in which he was involved occurred in public places, or in clear view of neighbors, 
spectators and onlookers , i.e. alongside a highway, in his yard or on the porch of his 
home. In this regard, Applicant’s behavior and tendencies if known by neighbors , 
onlookers, spectators, and concerned citizens who reported the incident with X2 on the 
side of a highway, could have caused him concerns about his professional standing and 
reputation and as an employee of a defense contractor. 
The following mitigating conditions are potentially applicable under AG ¶ 17: 
AG ¶ 17 (d):  the individual has acknowledged the behavior and obtained  
couns
eling to change the be havior or taken other positive steps to alleviate  
the stressors, circumstances, or factors that  contributed to untrustworthy,  
unreliable, or  other inappropriate behavior, and such behavior is  unlikely to  
recur;  and  
AG ¶ 17 (e):  t he individual has taken positive steps to reduce or eliminate  
vul
nerability to exploitation,  manipulation, or duress.  
Appli
cant acknowledged his behavior and obtained counseling to change his past 
inappropriate behavior. He completed the court’s required anger management course. 
Additionally, he said he is no longer married, has full custody of his children, and has 
limited contact with his ex-wife and her family. His counselor also said that he is in a stable 
relationship, that he successfully co-parents with his ex-wife, and she favorably endorsed 
his application for a security clearance. AG ¶¶ 17(d) and 17(e) are applicable. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
 
   
 
 
    
      
       
       
   
  
     
 
   
    
   
 
 
 
      
    
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. In applying the whole-
person concept, an administrative judge must evaluate an applicant’s eligibility for a 
security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct and all relevant 
circumstances. An administrative judge should consider the nine adjudicative process 
factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.   
I have incorporated my comments under Guidelines J, D, and E in my whole -
person analysis and applied the adjudicative factors in AG ¶ 2(d). I noted several 
inconsistencies in Applicant’s statements to police officers at the time of the incidents, 
and the statements he made in his SOR Answer. Because this case is decided on the 
written record, there was no opportunity to question him about the inconsistencies and 
any of the security concerns raised in the case. For the same reason, t here was no 
opportunity to observe his demeanor and thereby assess his credibility. 
Thus, after weighing the disqualifying and mitigating conditions and evaluating all 
evidence in the whole- person context, I conclude Applicant mitigated the security 
concerns under Guidelines D and E, but failed to mitigate the security concerns under 
Guideline J. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  G
 uideline J:  AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 1.a:   For Applicant  
Subparagraphs 1.b  –  1.g:  Against  Applicant  
Paragraph 2, Guideline D:   FOR APPLICANT  
Subparagraph 2.a  - 2.b:   For Applicant  
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
Paragraph 3, Guideline E:   FOR APPL ICANT  
Subparagraph  3.a:  For
 Applicant 
Conclusion  
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant’s eligibility 
for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Gatha LaFaye 
Administrative Judge 
12 