 
 
 
 
  
 
               DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
     DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS  
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                    
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
   
 
 
 
  
 
    
  
  
 
 
     
    
   
   
      
     
 
______________ 
______________ 
In the matter of:   )  
 )  
   )     ISCR Case No. 24-01313  
   )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance   )  
A
ppearances  
For Government: John Hannink, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
06/03/2025 
Decision  
Curry, Marc E., Administrative Judge: 
Although the circumstances that led to Applicant’s incurrence of delinquent debt 
were largely out of his control, he provided no evidence of what steps, if any, that he has 
taken to ameliorate his troubled financial situation. I conclude Applicant has failed to 
mitigate the financial considerations security concerns. His application for a security 
clearance is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On August 23, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
Consolidated Adjudications Services (DCSA CAS) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) 
to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guidelines F, financial considerations, 
explaining why it was unable to find it clearly consistent with the national security to grant 
security clearance eligibility. The DCSA CAS took the action under Executive Order (EO) 
10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as 
amended; Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel 
Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the 
National Adjudicative Guidelines (AG) effective for any adjudication made on or after June 
8, 2017. On September 15, 2024, Applicant answered the SOR, admitting  the allegations 
and requesting a decision based on the evidence on file rather than a hearing. On 
1 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
    
    
   
 
  
  
   
 
  
   
 
    
 
     
  
  
 
    
   
 
  
 
 
November 14, 2024, Department Counsel prepared a File of Relevant Material (FORM), 
setting forth the Government’s arguments against Applicant’s security clearance 
worthiness. The FORM contains seven attachments, identified as Item 1 through Item 7. 
Applicant received a copy of the FORM on December 4, 2024. He was given 30 
days to file a response. He did not file a response, whereupon the case was assigned to 
me on February 24, 2025. After receiving the FORM, I admitted Items 1 through 7 into 
the record. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 36-year-old single man. A prior marriage ended in a divorce. Since 
2017, he has worked for a federal government contractor as a facility manager. 
Applicant stated he was born into a cult. He claimed the cult leader required its 
members “to go get as [many] credit cards as [they] could and then charge them up to 
donate money to the cult,” and to purchase and deliver food and household goods to the 
other families who were cult members. (Item 3 at 2) 
In 2015, Applicant escaped the cult. With no formal training, he had to use credit 
cards to make ends meet. Also, he claimed he used credit cards to help other family 
members transition from the cult. 
Currently, Applicant has approximately $54,000 of delinquent consumer debt. He 
does not plan on satisfying or resolving  these debts. Instead, he is going to wait until they 
no longer appear on his credit report. Moreover, there is no record evidence that he is 
attending financial counseling. 
Policies  
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion the Executive  
Branch has in regulating access to information pertaining to national security,  
emphasizing that “no  one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.”  Department of the Navy  
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518,  528 (1988). When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for  a security  
clearance, the administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition  
to brief introductory explanations  for each guideline, the adjudicative guideli nes list  
potentially  disqualifying conditions  and  mitigating conditions, which are required to be  
considered in evaluating an applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information.  
These guidelines  are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing  the complexities of  
human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the factors listed in the  
adjudicative process.  The administrative judge’s overall adjudicative goal is a fair,  
impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶  2(a), the entire process is a  
conscientious scrutiny of variables known as the “whole- person concept.” The  
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person,  
past and pr esent, favorable and unfavorable,  in making a decision.  
2 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
   
  
    
    
 
 
 
  
      
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
 
      
 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 1(d) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present 
evidence to establish controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, 
the applicant is responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, 
explain, extenuate, or mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department 
Counsel. . ..” The applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable 
security decision. 
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must consider the 
totality of an applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances in light of the nine 
adjudicative process factors in AG ¶ 2(d). They are as follows: 
(1) the nature, extent,  and s
 eriousness of the conduct;  
(2) the circumstances  s urrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation;   
(3) the frequency  and  recency  of the conduct;   
(
4) the individual’s  age  and maturity  at the time of  the conduct;   
(5) the extent to which participation is voluntary;   
(6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation and other  per manent  
behavioral changes;   
(7) the motivation for the conduct;   
(8) the potential  f or pressure, coercion,  exploitation, or duress; and  
(9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Analysis  
Gu
ideline  F: Financial Considerations  
The s
ecurity concern under this Guideline states , “failure to live within one’s 
means, satisfy debts, and meet financial obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack 
of judgment, or unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified 
or sensitive information.” (AG ¶ 18)  Applicant’s outstanding tax delinquencies trigger the 
application of AG ¶ 19(a), “inability to satisfy debts,” and AG ¶ 19(c), “a history of not 
meeting financial obligations.” 
The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 are potentially applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
und
er such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good judgment;  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
  
     
  
    
  
 
 
  
     
 
 
 
     
    
 
     
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial  pr
 oblem were largely beyond  
the person’s control  (e.g., loss of employment, a business  downturn,  
unexpected medical emergency, a death,  divorce, or separation, clear  
victimization by  predatory  lending pract ices, or identity theft),  and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;   
(c) the individual  has  received or is receiving financial counseling for the  
problem from  a legitimate and credible source, such as a non- profit credit  
counseling service,  and there are clear indications that the problem is being  
resolved or is under control; and  
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- f aith effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debt.  
Gr
owing up in a cult and being instructed by the cult leader to open credit cards to 
purchase items for other cult members constitutes a circumstance beyond Applicant’s 
control. However, Applicant left the cult approximately ten years ago and has done 
nothing to satisfy or resolve his delinquent debt, nor did he present evidence that he is 
enrolled in counseling to learn how to manage his finances. Consequently, AG ¶ 20(b) 
only applies insofar as the circumstances were beyond his control, and none of the other 
mitigating conditions apply. 
Whole-Person Concept  
I considered the whole-person concept factors in my analysis of the disqualifying 
and mitigating conditions, discussed above, and they do not warrant a favorable 
conclusion. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1
 .a  –  1.j:  Agai
nst Applicant 
Conclusion  
4 
 
 
 
      
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
_____________________ 
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant or continue Applicant’s 
eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Marc E. Curry 
Administrative Judge 
5 