 
 
 
                                                              
 
                       DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
     DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS      
           
             
 
 
 
   
 
     
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
     
    
     
 
    
      
   
      
   
    
     
  
 
      
    
   
   
 
______________ 
______________ 
In  the matter  of:  )  
 )  
    )   ISCR Case  No. 24-00905  
    )   
Applicant  for Security Clearance  )  
Appearances  
For Government: Aubrey M. De Angelis, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
07/31/2025 
Decision  
BORGSTROM, Eric H., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not mitigate the security concerns arising from her illegal drug use, 
criminal conduct, and falsifications. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
On August 6, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) 
issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under 
Guideline H (drug involvement and substance misuse) , Guideline J (criminal conduct), 
and Guideline E (personal conduct). The DCSA acted under Executive Order (EO) 10865, 
Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; 
Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security 
Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the 
adjudicative guidelines (AG) implemented by the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
In Applicant’s undated response to the SOR (Answer) , she admitted all of the 
allegations.  She provided no further explanation or information, and she did not attach 
any documentary evidence. Sh e requested a decision by a n administrative judge of the 
Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals based upon the written record in lieu of a 
hearing. (Answer) 
 
 
 
    
 
   
  
 
 
   
    
   
   
   
    
 
  
     
     
  
 
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
  
  
  
  
     
  
  
 
   
 
    
    
  
   
  
On April 7, 2025, Department Counsel submitted a file of relevant material (FORM) 
and provided a complete copy to Applicant. Department Counsel’s FORM included 
Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 7. In the FORM, Department Counsel provided 
Applicant notice that failure to respond to the FORM may be considered a waiver of any 
objections to the admissibility of the evidentiary exhibits. 
On April 18, 2025, Applicant received the FORM and its attachments. A cover letter 
included with the FORM advised Applicant that she had 30 days from the date of receipt 
to file any objections or to provide any additional information in support of h er clearance 
eligibility. She did not submit a response to the FORM nor object to any of the 
Government’s evidentiary exhibits. The case was assigned to me on Ju ly 11, 2025. 
Government’s Exhibits 1 through 7 are admitted into evidence without objection. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 46 years old. She graduated from high school in 1997. She has never 
married, and she has three children, ages 21, 19, and 17. Since December 2022, she has 
been employed full time as a supervisor with a DOD contractor. (GE 4-5) 
On August 28, 2023, Applicant completed and submitted an Electronic 
Questionnaire for Investigations Processing (e-QIP). Under Section 22 – Police Record, 
she denied any drug- related offenses. Under Section 23 – Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug 
Activity, she reported that she had illegally used narcotics for about a month between 
October and November 2022. She denied purchasing illegal drugs in the previous seven 
years, and she denied using any other illegal drugs in the previous seven years. She 
reported that she had attended and completed a drug treatment program in November 
2022. (GE 4) 
On October 4, 2023, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator on 
behalf of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). During the security interview, she 
explained that she had been terminated from employment in October 2022 for bringing 
her former boyfriend onto company property. She admitted deliberately providing a false 
name for her boyfriend when she was questioned by company security. She admitted that 
she had been charged with two drug- related offenses in February 2002. She had been 
pulled over and a scale with cocaine residue and multiple empty Ziploc bags were found. 
She denied that the items were hers. The charges were later dismissed upon completion 
of one year of probation and payment of a $700 fine. (GE 5-6) 
During Applicant’s security interview, she confirmed that she had used heroin 
nearly daily between October 2022 and November 2022. She purchased heroin from a 
local drug dealer. She was stressed at having to move out of her residence and having 
recently been terminated. She further admitted that she had also used marijuana and 
cocaine “only a couple times” during this period and had purchased marijuana and 
cocaine once each. She then went to a substance abuse treatment center in November 
2022. (GE 5) 
2 
 
 
 
     
    
 
     
 
 
      
  
  
  
 
 
    
  
     
  
   
    
     
   
   
 
  
 
 
    
  
  
      
   
 
 
    
 
  
  
    
      
 
In Applicant’s July 8, 2024 response to DOHA interrogatories, she adopted the 
summary of her security interview. She admitted that she had used heroin daily between 
August 2022 and October 31, 2022. She had used marijuana and cocaine on a few 
occasions at the end of October 2022. She expressed her intent to abstain from illegal 
drugs in the future. (GE 5) 
Applicant’s disclosures about her drug use and involvement on her e-QIP, during 
her security interview, and in her response to the interrogatories, substantially differ from 
the substance abuse history she relayed during her November 1, 2022 intake at the 
treatment facility. Upon intake, she provided her substance use as follows: 
(1)  marijuana monthly between about 1997 and October 27, 2022;  
(2)  crack cocaine monthly  bet
 ween about 2003 and October 30, 2022;  
(3)  heroin daily from about April 2022 to October  31,  202 2; and  
(4)  Subox one, without a prescription,  daily from about November 2021 to April  
2022.  
Dur
ing her intake, Applicant reported that in one instance in 2021 she had nearly 
overdosed from narcotics. She claimed to have abstained from illegal drugs between 
2015 and 2020. As of November 2022, Applicant’s former boyfriend and her mother used 
illegal drugs. She acknowledged that she remained “in love” with her former boyfriend 
and that she would likely use illegal drugs again if they reunited. Upon discharge from 
treatment, Applicant was diagnosed with (1) opioid use disorder, severe; (2) cannabis use 
disorder, severe; and (3) cocaine use disorder, severe. She was recommended to 
complete an intensive outpatient program “to maintain daily engagement and foster a 
peer and social support network.” She was administratively discharged from the treatment 
program prior to completion and did not adhere to aftercare recommendations. According 
to the discharge records, her risk of relapse was high. (GE 7) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant ’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
3 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
     
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
 
   
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
   
  
 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to sensitive information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
sensitive information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard sensitive information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of sensitive information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline H: Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse
The security concern for drug involvement is set out in AG ¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any “controlled substance” as 
defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in 
this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 25. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a)  any  s
ubstance misuse;  
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
   
   
    
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
     
   
 
(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation,   
pr
ocessing, manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession of  
drug paraphernalia;  
(d) diagnosis by  a dul y qualified medical or mental health profession (e.g.,  
physician, clinical psychologist, psychiatrist, or licensed clinical social  
worker) of substance use disorder; and  
(e) failure to successfully complete a drug treatment  pr ogram prescribed by  
a duly  qualified medical or mental  health professional.  
Appl
icant admitted her illegal use and purchase of heroin, cocaine, marijuana, and 
Suboxone. She entered a substance abuse treatment program, where she was 
diagnosed with (1) opioid use disorder, severe; (2) cocaine use disorder, severe, and (3) 
cannabis use disorder, severe. She did not complete the treatment program, and her risk 
of relapse was considered high. She was also charged with two drug- related offenses. 
AG ¶¶ 25(a), 25(c), 25(d), and 25(e) apply. 
Conditions that could mitigate the drug involvement security concerns are provided 
under AG ¶ 26. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago,  
 was so infrequent,  or happened  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur  or does not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability,  trustworthiness,  or good judgment; and  
(b) the individual acknowledges  h is or her drug involvement and substance  
misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and  
has established a pattern of  abstinence, including, but not limited to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-us ing associates and contacts;  
(2) changing or  av oiding the environment where drugs were used;  
and  
(3) providin g  a signed statement  of intent to abstain from  all drug  
involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future  
involvement  or misuse is grounds for revocation of national  security  
eligibility.  
Appl
icant admitted all of the allegations in the SOR, including her failure to 
complete the treatment program. She did not respond to the FORM. She has not provided 
evidence of disassociation from drug-using associates, changing environments, a pattern 
of abstinence, or a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug involvement. She 
did not mitigate the drug involvement security concerns. 
5 
 
 
 
  
 
 
     
   
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
   
   
 
 
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
Guideline J: Criminal Conduct  
The security concern for criminal conduct is set out in AG ¶ 30: 
Criminal activity creates doubt  about a  person’s judgment, reliability, and  
trustworthiness. By its very nature, it calls into question a person’s ability or  
willingness to comply  with laws, rules  and regulations.  
AG ¶ 31 describes conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying. The following is potentially applicable: 
(b) evidence (including, but not limited to, a credible allegation, an 
admission, and matters of official record) of  criminal conduct, regardless of  
whether the individual  was formally charged,  prosecuted, or convicted.  
Applicant was charged with two drug- related criminal offenses in 2002, after she 
was found with drug paraphernalia. She was later sentenced to probation. She illegally 
used and purchased marijuana, cocaine, heroin, and Suboxone on many occasions over 
several years. AG ¶ 31(b) applies. 
Conditions that could mitigate criminal conduct security concerns are provided 
under AG ¶ 32. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a) so much time has  el
 apsed since the criminal behavior happened, or it  
happened under such unusual circumstances, that it is unlikely to recur and  
does not cast doubt on the individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, or good  
judgment; and  
(d) there is evidence of successful rehabilitation; including, but not limited  
t
o, the passage of time without recurrence of criminal activity, restitution,  
compliance with the terms of parole or  probation, job training or higher  
education,  good employment record,  or constructive community   
involvement.  
Appl
icant illegally used and purchased marijuana, cocaine, heroin, and Suboxone 
for several years. Her former boyfriend and her mother were also involved with illegal 
drugs. Although she entered drug treatment in 2022, she did not complete treatment, and 
she has not provided evidence of successful rehabilitation. Her risk of relapse was 
considered high, and she noted that she would likely use illegal drugs if she reunited with 
her former boyfriend. She did not mitigate the criminal conduct security concerns. 
Guideline E: Personal Conduct  
The concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 15: 
6 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
    
    
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
    
     
     
 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. . . . 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 16. The following disqualifying condition is potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) deliberate omission, concealment,  or falsification of relevant facts from  
any personnel  security questionnaire, personal  history  statement,  or similar  
form  used to conduct investigations, determine employment qualifications,  
award benefits or  status, determine national security eligibility or  
trustworthiness, or  award fiduciary responsibilities.  
In her Answer, Applicant admitted that she deliberately falsified her responses on 
her August 2023 e- QIP, in response to Sections 22 and 23. Specifically, she minimized 
the span of her heroin, marijuana, cocaine, and Suboxone use, she falsified that she had 
completed treatment, and she omitted her drug offenses. AG ¶ 16(a) applies. 
The following personal conduct mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 17 are potentially 
relevant: 
(a) the individual made prompt, good- f
 aith efforts to correct the omission,   
concealment,  or falsification before being confronted with the facts;  and  
(c) the offense is so minor, or so much time has passed or the behavior is  
s
o infrequent, or it happened under such unique circumstances that it is  
unlikely to recur  and  does not cast doubt  on the individual’s reliability,  
trustworthiness, or  good judgment.  
 
Appl
icant did not provide any further explanation for her e- QIP omissions and the 
unalleged falsifications during her OPM interview or in her Answer. Rather, in her 
response to DOHA interrogatories, she continued to minimize her drug involvement. Her 
treatment records reveal that her drug use has spanned multiple decades and not simply 
the one -month period she referenced in her e- QIP and confirmed during her security 
interview. She did not mitigate the personal conduct security concerns. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information by considering the totality of the 
applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should 
consider the nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
7 
 
 
      
   
   
  
   
     
   
 
 
  
    
 
  
     
 
 
     
    
 
   
 
    
 
    
 
     
 
    
 
    
 
 
 
 
  
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; ( 5) the  extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. I considered the potentially 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances 
surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under Guideline H, Guideline J, 
Guideline E, and the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) in this whole-person analysis. 
In late 2022, Applicant experienced hardship, including her termination and a 
period of homelessness. Notwithstanding this adversity, she has used illegal drugs for 
decades, and she deliberately provided false information about her drug involvement 
during the clearance investigation. She has not provided any explanations or information 
showing mitigation of the drug involvement, criminal conduct, and personal conduct 
security concerns. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  Guideline H:   AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 1.a.-1.f.:  Against  Applicant  
Paragraph 2, Guideline J: AGAINST APPLICANT  
Subparagraph 2.a.:  Against  Applicant  
Paragraph 3, Guideline E:  AGAINST APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 3.a.-3.d.:  Against Applicant  
Conclusion  
8 
 
 
    
     
       
 
 
 
 
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, I conclude 
that it is not clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant Applicant ’s 
eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Eric H. Borgstrom 
Administrative Judge 
9 