 
 
 
                                                              
                           
          
           
             
 
 
    
  
       
     
  
   
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
    
  
     
  
    
  
  
  
 
   
  
 
 
    
______________ 
______________ 
DEPART
MENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-01935 
) 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Andrew Henderson, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
07/01/2025 
Decision 
CEFOLA, Richard A., Administrative Judge: 
Statement  of the Case  
On March 21, 2024, Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SF -
86). On January 2, 2025, in accordance with DoD Directive 5220.6, as amended 
(Directive), the Department of Defense issued Applicant a Statement of Reasons (SOR) 
alleging facts that raise security concerns under Guidelines H and E. The action was 
taken under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information Within 
Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of Defense Directive 5220.6, 
Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as 
amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) effective within the 
Department of Defense on June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR in writing (Answer) on January 22, 2025, and 
requested a hearing before an administrative judge. The case was assigned to me on 
April 10, 2025. The Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a Notice of 
Hearing on April 14, 2025. I convened the hearing as scheduled on May 27, 2025. The 
Government offered Government Exhibits 1 through 3, which were admitted without 
1 
 
 
 
    
  
    
    
     
 
   
      
 
 
     
    
 
   
        
    
 
 
 
    
    
   
   
     
    
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
objection. The Government amended the SOR as follows: “1.d. From on or about April 
4, 2024, to on or about January 1, 2025, you used marijuana with varying frequency 
while in a sensitive position, i.e., one requiring a security clearance.” He admits this 
allegation. (TR at page 7 line 22 to page 8 line 7.) Applicant testified on his own behalf , 
called his wife as a witness and offered Applicant Exhibit (AppX) A, which was admitted 
without objection. DOHA received the transcript of the hearing (TR) on June 9, 2025 . 
The record was left open until June 27, 2025, for the receipt of additional evidence. On 
June 27, 2025, Applicant submitted a closing statement. The record closed at that time. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant admi tted all the allegations of the SOR. After a thorough and careful 
review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. 
Applicant is a 28- year-old employee of a de fense contractor . He has been 
employed with the defense contractor since “August of 2023.” He is married, and has no 
children. (TR at page 5 line 15 to page 16 line 8, and at page 18 line 12 to page 21 line 
15.) 
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
1.a~1.d. Applicant admits that he used marijuana, on an almost daily basis, from 
about January 2011, until his last usage on January 1, 2025, a period of about 14 years. 
He was aware that the use of marijuana is illegal under Federal law, but used it after 
completing his e- QIP in March of 2024, and while in a sensitive position; i.e., one 
requiring a security clearance. Applicant also purchased marijuana, on various 
occasions, from about 2013 to about December of 2024, a period of about 12 years. 
(TR at page 23 line 14 to page 27 line 7.) His spouse testified that she still occasionally 
uses marijuana. (TR at page 34 line 6 to page 40 line 13.) 
Guideline E  - Personal Conduct  
2.a. Applicant  admits that he falsified his March 21,  2024  e-QIP, when he  
answered “No,” to Section 22,  denying he was ,  “EVER,” charged with an offense 
involving drugs.  Applicant was arrested for possession of  marijuana in about  2013. (TR  
at page 21 line 14 to page 22 line 25.) I find this to be a willful falsification.  
2.b. Applicant  admits that he falsified his March 21,  2024  e-QIP, when he  
answered Section 23, claiming his  most recent use of  marijuana was  “08/2023,” and  
that  he only used it, “Once in a while for birthdays/holidays”; when in fact, Applicant  had  
been using marijuana on an almost  daily basis. (TR at page 23  line 1 to page 24 line 19,  
and at  page 27 line 8 to page 28 line 12.) I find this to be a willful falsification.  
2 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
 
  
   
   
   
 
  
   
 
    
   
    
     
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for national security eligibility, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines (AG) list 
potentially disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in 
evaluating an applicant’s national security eligibility. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. The entire 
process is a conscientious scrutiny of applicable guidelines in the context of a number 
of variables known as the whole- person concept. The administrative judge must 
consider all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable 
and unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I 
have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the 
evidence contained in the record. I have not drawn inferences based on mere 
speculation or conjecture. 
Directive ¶ E3.1.14, requires the Government to present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel, and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable clearance decision.” 
A person applying for national security eligibility seeks to enter into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants national security eligibility. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation as to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified or 
sensitive information. Finally, as emphasized in Section 7 of Executive Order 10865, 
“[a]ny determination under this order adverse to an applicant shall be a determination in 
terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty 
of the applicant concerned.” See also Executive Order 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing 
multiple prerequisites for access to classified or sensitive information.) 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
    
   
   
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
       
  
     
     
 
    
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis  
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Drug Involvement and 
Substance Misuse is set forth at AG ¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual's reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior 
may lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person's ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any "controlled substance" 
as defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term 
adopted in this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
The guideline at AG ¶ 25 contains seven conditions that could raise a security 
concern and may be disqualifying. Three conditions are established: 
(a) any substance misuse (see above definition);  
(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation,  
pr
ocessing, manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession of  
drug paraphernalia; and  
(f) any illegal  dr ug use while granted access to classified information or  
holding a sensitive position.  
Appel
lant used marijuana on countless occasions over a period of 14 years. He 
also purchased marijuana countless times over a period of 12 years. From April 2024 
until January 2025, Applicant held a sensitive position, i.e., one requiring a security 
clearance. Therefore, AG ¶ 25 (a), (c), and (f) are applicable. 
The guideline at AG ¶ 26 contains four conditions that could mitigate security 
concerns. Two conditions may be applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or  happened  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur  or does not cast doubt  
on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;  
and  
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
      
    
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
  
     
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
(b) the individual acknowledges  hi
 s or her drug involvement  and  
substance misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this  
problem,  and has  established a pattern of  abstinence, including,  but not  
limited to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-us ing associates and contacts;   
(2) changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were  
us
ed; and  
(3) providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all  
dr
ug involvement  and  substance misuse, acknowledging that  
any future involvement or  misuse is  grounds for revocation  
of national security  eligibility.  
None
 of these apply. Applicant’s last use of marijuana was only about six months 
ago, and his spouse still uses marijuana. Furthermore, Applicant has not submitted a 
statement of intent as to future usage. Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse is 
found against Applicant. 
Guideline E  - Personal Conduct  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Personal Conduct is set out in 
AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to 
cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes. The following will normally result 
in an unfavorable national security eligibility determination, security 
clearance action, or cancellation of further processing for national security 
eligibility: 
(a) refusal, or  f
 ailure  without reasonable cause,  to undergo 
or cooperate with security processing, including but not  
limited to meeting with a security investigator for subject  
interview, completing security forms or releases, cooperation  
with medical or  psychological evaluation, or  polygraph  
examination, if  authorized and required; and  
(b) refusal to provide full, frank, and truthful answers to  
l
awful questions  of investigators, security officials, or other  
official representatives in connection with a personnel  
security or trustworthiness determination.  
5 
 
 
 
  
     
 
 
     
   
 
  
   
 
 
    
    
 
 
  
 
    
   
 
 
      
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 16. One is potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) deliberate omission, concealment,  or falsification of relevant facts from  
any  personnel security questionnaire, personal history statement, or  
similar form  used to conduct investigations, determine employment  
qualifications, award benefits or status, determine national security  
eligibility or trustworthiness,  or award fiduciary responsibilities.  
Applicant falsified his March 2024 e- QIP. The evidence is sufficient to raise the 
above disqualifying conditions. 
AG ¶ 17 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. I considered 
all of the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 17 including: 
(a) the individual  made prompt,  good-faith efforts to correct the omission,  
concealment,  or falsification before being confronted with the facts.  
This does not apply. Applicant continued his falsehoods in the execution of his e-
QIP, until confronted with the SOR. Personal Conduct is found against Applicant. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s national security eligibility by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent  to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of  
rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation  
for the conduct; (8) the potential for  pressure, coercion, exploitation,  or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence.   
According to AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant national 
security eligibility must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the applicable guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
6 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
     
    
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
        
      
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guidelines H and E in my whole-person analysis. 
Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts as to 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance . For these reasons, I 
conclude Applicant failed to mitigate the Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse , and 
Personal Conduct security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR,  
as required by  ¶  E3.1.25 of the Directive,  are:  
 
Paragraph 1,  Guideline H:    
 
AGAINST  APPL
 ICANT  
  Subparagraphs  1.a~1.d:    A gainst  Applicant  
 
P
aragraph 2, Guideline E:    AGAINST  APPL ICANT  
 
 
 Subparagraphs 2.a. and  2.b:   Agai
nst  Applicant  
Conclusion  
In li
ght of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Richard A. Cefola 
Administrative Judge 
7 