 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                               
      
               
          
             
 
    
                                                                       
                                                                       
   
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
               
                                                             
 
 
  
 
    
   
   
 
 
    
   
     
    
  
 
  
    
   
   
  
    
       
 
__________ 
__________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-01775 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Sakeena Farhath, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
06/25/2025 
Decision 
WESLEY, ROGER C. Administrative Judge 
Based upon a review of the case file, pleadings, and exhibits, Applicant did not 
mitigate financial considerations concerns. Eligibility for access to classified information 
or to hold a sensitive position is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On November 15, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS) issued a statement of reasons (SOR) 
to Applicant detailing reasons why under the financial considerations guideline the 
DCSA CAS could not mak e the preliminary affirmative determination of eligibility for 
granting a security clearance, and recommended referral to an administrative judge to 
determine whether a security clearance should be granted, continued, denied, or 
revoked. The action was taken under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified I nformation within Industry (February 20, 1960); Department of Defense 
(DoD) Directive 5220.6 Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
Program, (January 2, 1992) ( Directive); and Security Executive Agent Directive 4, 
establishing in Appendix A the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for 
Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a 
Sensitive Position (AGs), effective June 8, 2017. 
1 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
   
      
     
       
  
 
    
  
  
 
 
    
    
  
    
 
     
        
  
 
     
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
      
Applicant responded to the SOR on December 2, 2024, and requested that her 
case be resolved on the written record without a hearing. Applicant received the Fi le of 
Relevant Material ( FORM) on February 17, 2025, a nd elected not to respond to the 
FORM. This case was assigned to me on June 5, 2025 . The Government’s case 
consisted of seven exhibits that were admitted without objection as Items 1-7. 
Summary  of Pleadings  
Under Guideline F, Applicant allegedly accumulated nine delinquent consumer 
debts exceeding $45,,000 . Allegedly, Applicant’s delinquent debts have not been 
resolved and remain outstanding. 
In  Applicant’s  response to the SOR,  she admitted most of the listed debts in the  
SOR. She denied the allegations covered by SOR  ¶¶ 1. g  and 1.i, claiming mitigating  
circumstances. For explanations  and clarifications regarding her  admitted debts, she  
claimed  mitigating circumstances associated with her  marriage separation, the COVID-
19 pandemic,  and her father’s cancer diagnosis.  (Item 2)  
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 47-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security 
clearance. Allegations covered in the SOR and admitted by Applicant are incorporated 
and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow. 
Background  
Applicant married in March 2011 and separated in October 2020. (Item 3) She 
has one adult child (age 23) from another relationship. She reported no educational or 
military service credits. (Item 3) 
Since November 2023, Applicant has worked for her as a painter. (Item 3) 
Between 2017 and 2022, she worked for various employers in assorted lines of work. 
She reported multiple periods of unemployment between 2010 and 2025. S he has 
never held a security clearance. (Item 3) 
Applicant’s  Finances  
Between 2021 and 2023,   Applicant  accumulated nine delinquent consumer  
accounts  exceeding $ 45,000.  She  attributed his  deb ts  to  ongoing financial hardships  
highlighted by her  marriage separation that has left  her as the sole provider for her  
herself and her son. (Item 2) Compounding her struggles with her  finances as a single  
parent have been the  unexpected loss  of her father from  diagnosed cancer, the  COVID-
19 pandemic,  and  her  unstable work  history. (Item  2)   To da te,  she has been unable to  
make any headway with her  debts.  
In the personal financial statement she provided, Applicant reported net monthly 
income of $2,200, monthly expenses of $2,960, and monthly debt obligations of $553. 
2 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
    
   
                                                                                                                                                           
 
 
     
   
  
   
 
     
   
  
    
 
  
  
  
    
 
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
     
  
(Item 7) She reported a net monthly remainder of a negative $1,313. For reported 
assets, she listed bank savings of $250 and nothing else. 
Policies  
By virtue of the jurisprudential principles recognized by the U.S. Supreme Court 
in Department of the Navy v. Egan , 484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988), “no one has a ‘right’ to a 
security clearance.” As Commander in Chief, “the President has the authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Egan. at 527. 
Eligibility for access to classified information may only be granted “upon a finding 
that it is clearly consistent with the national interest to do so. ” Exec. Or. 10865, 
Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the a pplicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial , and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The AGs list guidelines to be considered by judges in the decision- making 
process covering DOHA cases. These guidelines take into account factors that could 
create a potential conflict of interest for the individual applicant, as well as 
considerations that could affect the individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified information. 
These AGs include conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying (disqualifying conditions), if any, and all of the conditions that could 
mitigate security concerns, if any. They must be considered before deciding whether or 
not a security clearance should be granted, continued, or denied. Although, the 
guidelines do not require judges to place exclusive reliance on the enumerated 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in the guidelines in arriving at a decision. 
In addition to the relevant AGs, judges must take into account the pertinent 
considerations for assessing extenuation and mitigation set forth in ¶ 2(a) of the AGs, 
which are intended to assist the judges in reaching a fair and impartial, commonsense 
decision based on a careful consideration of the pertinent guidelines within the context 
of the whole person. The adjudicative process is designed to examine a sufficient period 
of an applicant’s life to enable predictive judgments to be made about whether the 
applicant is an acceptable security risk. 
When evaluating an applicant’s conduct, the relevant guidelines are to be 
considered together with the following ¶ 2(d) factor s: ( 1) the nature, extent, and 
seriousness of the conduct; (2) the circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include 
3 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
             
    
  
   
    
 
 
   
  
         
 
                  
 
  
 
  
   
  
    
 
  
    
    
    
 
 
 
  
    
knowledgeable participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to which 
participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation and other 
permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation of the conduct; (8) the potential for 
pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the likelihood of continuation or 
recurrence. 
Viewing the issues raised and evidence as a whole, the following individual 
guidelines are pertinent herein: 
Financial Considerations  
The Concern: Failure or inability to live within one’s means, satisfy 
debts and meet financial obligations may indicate poor self-control, lack of 
judgment, or unwillingness to abide by rules or regulations, all of which 
can raise questions about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness and 
ability to protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can 
also be caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of 
other issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, 
mental health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or 
dependence. An individual who is financially overextended is at greater 
risk of having to engage in illegal acts or otherwise questionable acts to 
generate funds. .  .  . AG ¶ 18. 
     Burdens of Proof  
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation 
about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Clearance decisions must be “ in terms of the national interest and shall in no 
sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the a pplicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 
10865, Feb. 20, 1960, § 7. See also Exec. Or. 12968 (Aug. 2, 1995), § 3.1. 
Initially, the  G overnment must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in  
the per sonal  or professional history of  the a pplicant that may disqualify the  a pplicant  
from being eligible for  access  to classified information. The  Government has  the burden  
of establishing controverted facts  alleged in the SOR.  See  Egan, 484 U.S.  at 531.   
“Substantial evidence”  is  “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance. ”   See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth., 36 F.3d 375,  380 (4
th  Cir. 1994).   
T
he guidelines presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct 
under any of the criteria listed therein and an a pplicant’s security suitability. See ISCR 
Case No. 95-0611 at 2 (App. Bd. May 2, 1996). 
4 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
     
   
     
        
   
     
 
  
       
     
     
 
 
    
     
    
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
    
 
   
     
   
    
    
  
 
   
 
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition by substantial 
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it 
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue his [or her] security 
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01-20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). 
The burden of disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the Government. 
See ISCR Case No. 02 -31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance 
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials. ” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; 
see AG ¶ 2(b). 
Analysis  
Security concerns are raised over Applicant’s accumulation of nine delinquent 
debts (exceeding $30,000) that raise trust, reliability, and judgment concerns about her 
current and future ability to manage her finances safely and responsibly. These 
concerns are addressed below. 
Financial concerns  
Applicant’s  accumulated delinquent debts warrant the application of  t wo  of the 
disqualifying conditions (DC) of the financial consideration guidelines.  DC ¶¶  19(a),  
“inability to satisfy debts”  and  19(c),  “a history  of not meeting f inancial obligations .” 
Whether  Applicant  harbored any intentional unwillingness to address her listed debt  
delinquencies  irrespective of  her financial status  is unclear . Her admitted  debt  
delinquencies  require  no independent proof to substantiate them  and raise judgment  
issues  over the management  of her finances.  . See  Directive 5220.6 at E3.1.1.14;  
McCormick on Evidence  §  262 (6th  ed. 2006); and  ISCR Case No. 03-01059 (App. Bd.  
Sept. 24, 2004).  
F
inancial stability in a person cleared to protect classified information is required 
precisely to inspire trust and confidence in the holder of a security clearance that 
entitles the person to access classified information. While the principal concern of a 
security clearance holder’s demonstrated difficulties is vulnerability to coer cion and 
influence, judgment and trust concerns are implicit in cases involving delinquent debts. 
Historically, the timing of addressing and resolving of an applicant’s debt 
delinquencies (inclusive of both consumer and tax debts) are critical to an assessment 
of the applicant’s trustworthiness, reliability, and good judgment in following rules and 
guidelines necessary for those seeking access to classified information or to holding a 
sensitive position. See ISCR Case No. 14 -06808 at 3 (App. Bd. Nov. 23. 2016) ; ISCR 
Case No. 14- 01894 at 5 (App. Bd. Aug. 18, 2015); ISCR Case No. 14- 00221 at 2- 5 
(App. Bd. June 29, 2016). 
Some mitigation is available to Applicant based on her reported financial 
struggles associated with multiple periods of unemployment, marital separation, and her 
5 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
    
   
  
  
   
       
     
   
  
 
     
  
     
      
    
   
  
   
 
       
       
      
        
       
  
 
  
     
   
   
        
 
 
 
  
            
 
 
                               
father’s cancer diagnosis and resulting expiration. MC ¶ 20(b), “the conditions that 
resulted in the financial problem were largely beyond the person’s control (e.g., loss of 
employment, a business downturn, unexpected medical emergency, a death, divorce or 
separation, clear victimization by predatory lending practices, or identity theft), and the 
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances ,” is partially applicable to 
Applicant’s situation. Without documented evidence of her addressing her current debt 
delinquencies, neither the second prong of MC ¶ 20(b) (“acting responsibly under the 
circumstances”) nor any of the other potentially applicable mitigating conditions are 
available to her. 
In the past, the Appeal Board has consistently imposed evidentiary burdens on 
applicants to provide documentation corroborating actions taken to resolve financial 
problems, whether the issues relate to back taxes or other debts and accounts . See 
ISCR Case No. 19 -02593 at 4-5 (App. Bd. Oct. 18, 2021); ISCR Case No. 19- 01599 at 
3 (App. Bd. Jan. 20, 2020) . Afforded opportunities to do so, Applicant has provided 
insufficient information on the status of her debts and available financial resources to 
address them to mitigate the Government’s financial concerns. 
Whole-person assessment  
Whole-person assessment of Applicant’s clearance eligibility requires 
consideration of whether her history of accumulated delinquent debts is fully compatible 
with minimum standards for holding a security clearance. While Applicant is entitled to 
credit for her work in the defense industry, her efforts are not enough at this time to 
overcome her repeated failures or inability to address her debts. Overall good judgment, 
reliability and trustworthiness are not established. 
Based on a consideration of all of the facts and circumstances considered in this 
case, it is too soon to make safe predictions that Applicant will be able to undertake 
documented good- faith efforts to mitigate the Government’s financial concerns within 
the foreseeable future. More time is needed to establish the requisite levels of stability 
with her finances to establish her overall eligibility for holding a security clearance. 
I have carefully applied the law, as set forth  in Department of Navy v.  Egan,  484 
U.S. 518 (1988) , Exec. Or. 10865, the Directive, and the AGs , to  the facts and  
circumstances in the context of the whole person. I  conclude financial considerations  
security concerns are  not  mitigated. E ligibility for  access to classified information  is  
denied.    
Formal Findings  
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
GUIDELINE F (FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS):  AGAINST  AP
 PLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a-1.i :      
6 
  Against A pplicant  
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
                
                                                              Conclusion  
 
     
      
    
 
 
 
 
   
 
__________________________ 
I
n light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Roger C. Wesley 
Administrative Judge 
7 