 
 
                                                              
 
  
           
             
 
 
    
  
             
  
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
        
 
 
 
  
     
     
 
      
    
 
   
 
    
   
    
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMEN
T OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-02098 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Andrew H. Henderson, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
05/12/2025 
Decision 
HALE, Charles C., Administrative Judge: 
This case involves security concerns raised under Guideline F (Financial 
Considerations). The Guideline F concerns are not mitigated. Eligibility for access to 
classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on May 31, 2024. On 
December 11, 2024, the Department of Defense (DoD) sent her a Statement of Reasons 
(SOR) alleging security concerns under Guideline F . The DoD acted under Executive 
Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 
20, 1960), as amended; D oD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security 
Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the 
adjudicative guidelines (AG) promulgated in Security Executive Agent Directive 4, 
National Security Adjudicative Guidelines (June 8, 2017). 
Applicant answered the SOR on January 21, 2025 , and requested a decision on 
the written record without a hearing. Department Counsel submitted the Government’s 
written case on January 30, 2025, including Items 1-8. A complete copy of the file of 
1 
 
 
       
    
  
  
 
       
     
 
 
           
    
    
 
       
     
     
 
 
   
       
        
   
     
    
      
      
   
 
      
    
  
  
    
    
 
        
   
   
      
   
   
 
     
    
    
relevant material (FORM) was received by Applicant on February 5, 2025, who was given 
an opportunity to file objections and submit material to refute, extenuate, or mitigate the 
Government’s evidence. She elected to not respond. The case was assigned to me on 
May 7, 2025. 
The SOR and Answer in Item 1 are the pleadings in the case. FORM Items 2 
through 8 are admitted into evidence without objection. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 59 years old. She earned her associate’s degree in 1993. She is thrice 
divorced, most recently in 2010. She has two adult children. She admits five of the SOR 
allegations with explanations and denies SOR ¶ 1.d. (Item 2; Item 3.) 
Applicant admits SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.c and 1.e-1.f. In her SCA, she listed her delinquent 
car loan, SOR ¶ 1.a, and her 2021 Chapter 7 Bankruptcy, SOR ¶ 1.e. She offered no 
documentation to support the statements made in her Answer and relied on the 
Government’s evidence for support. 
During Applicant’s July 2024 personal security interview (PSI) she discussed with 
an investigator her financial delinquencies. The SOR ¶ 1.a debt involves a car loan taken 
out in September 2021 and charged off in March 2024, with a balance due of $19,700 . 
She told the investigator she pays just over $100 every other week on the debt and that 
she had been making timely payments. The November 2024 credit report lists the last 
paid date as March 19, 2024. She fell behind on this loan because she elected to cover 
insurance expenses for her son and daughter. She described her rationale in describing 
her son’s situation during her PSI and her daughter ’s situation in her Answer. This debt 
is unresolved. (Answer; Items 2-5.) 
The investigator noted SOR ¶ 1.b, a debt of $2,098, as a charge off from the credit 
report used during the PSI, and Applicant believed it was covered in her 2021 bankruptcy. 
In her Answer she stated it was settled through a debt relief program. The November 
2024 credit report lists nothing past due and the account condition as “Legally paid in full 
for less than full balance.” The last payment date listed is May 19, 2023. This debt is 
resolved. (Answer; Items 2-3, 5.) 
The SOR ¶ 1.c account with a wireless service carrier was opened in 2005 and is 
listed as “seriously past due” on the November 2024 credit report in the amount of $1,414. 
In her Answer Applicant stated s he thought the balance would be paid off by the new 
wireless service carrier with whom she had contracted. She indicated in her Answer she 
would begin making $50 payments once she received an invoice from the creditor . This 
debt is unresolved. (Answer; Items 2-3, 5.) 
Applicant in her Answer explained t he delinquent SOR ¶ 1. d account, in the 
amount of $379, arose when she cosigned a loan with her partner. He possessed the 
vehicle and had since traded it in. She believed her bankruptcy had released her from the 
2 
 
 
     
    
         
 
  
   
     
      
       
       
      
   
  
 
     
   
     
      
        
    
   
    
    
    
     
 
    
     
    
 
 
      
   
  
     
    
  
      
 
 
  
   
    
   
debt. She states she will contact the creditor, and that this debt will be paid. The 
November 2024 credit report lists it as a joint account and the delinquency counter reflects 
one 30-day delinquency and 30 days past due. This debt is unresolved. (Answer; Item 5.) 
Applicant admits she has been through bankruptcy twice (SOR ¶¶ 1.e, 1.f) . She 
explains in her Answer her that the 2009 bankruptcy was with her husband and tied to a 
farming operation that her husband and his brother were involved in at the time. The farm 
operation was being handled by a special court that allowed debtors five or six years to 
resolve their farm debts. However, they were not able to make the payments to the special 
court. She and her husband filed for Chapter 7 Bankruptcy jointly. I n the ir Chapter 7 
Bankruptcy filings they listed their estimated liabilities at $2,091,934. She state d an 
attorney advised all three to file personal bankruptcy to avoid being liable for the farm 
debt. (Answer; Item 6.) 
The Chapter 7 Bankruptcy filing in April 2021 discharged over $107,000 in 
unsecured obligations. The Order of Discharge was issued in September 2021. Applicant 
in her PSI stated that after her last divorce she made a "series of bad financial decisions," 
which included taki ng out loans and us ing credit cards meet to make her daily living 
expenses. She cited the challenges of a single parent raising two children and being 
unable to work full-time for different periods throughout her employment history. She also 
volunteered that following her divorce, she was in a long-term relationship with someone 
who, for a period of time, was helping with her expenses. However, he was subsequently 
put on disability status, after which Applicant again had to be solely responsible for the 
care of her children, financially and otherwise. She was not making enough money to 
cover all the expenses herself. (Answer; Item 2, Item 7.) 
Applicant states she loves her job supporting servicemembers. She notes her 
family’s history of patriotic service. She affirms under no circumstances would she violate 
the trust placed in her by her employer and the U.S. Government. (Answer.) 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
3 
 
 
     
    
 
     
  
  
   
   
   
 
 
    
   
    
   
  
 
   
   
  
  
 
  
  
   
    
  
 
 
   
    
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
decision. An a dministrative judge must consider all available and reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865 
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant 
has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have 
established for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The g uidelines 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 15-01253 at 3 
(App. Bd. Apr. 20, 2016). 
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent 
with the national interest to grant or continue his security clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01-
20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if 
they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531. 
 Once the  G ov
 ernment establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial  
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive  ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of  proving a mitigating condition,  
and the burden of disproving it  never shifts to the  Government.  See  ISCR Case No.  02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep.  22,  2005).   
 Analysis  
Gu
ideline  F: Financial Considerations  
The concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's  means, satisfy debts, and meet financial  
obligations may  indicate poor  self-control, lack of judgment, or
 
4 
 
 
   
  
   
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
    
 
 
   
 
    
  
 
   
 
 
   
     
    
   
  
 
 
     
      
 
 
       
       
      
      
          
    
     
   
 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
Affluence that cannot be explained by known sources of income is also a 
security concern insofar as it may result from criminal activity, including 
espionage. 
The following disqualifying conditions are. potentially applicable in AG ¶ 19: 
(a)  inability to satisfy  deb
 ts;  and  
(c) a his
tory of not meeting financial obligations. 
Applicant’s debts are documented in his credit reports and security clearance 
interview. The above disqualifying conditions apply. 
The following mitigating conditions are potentially applicable in AG ¶ 20: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
under
 such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast doubt  
on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;  and  
(b) the
 conditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely beyond 
the person's control (e.g., loss of employment, a business downturn, 
unexpected medical emergency, a death, divorce or separation, clear 
victimization by predatory lending practices, or identity theft), and the 
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances. 
AG ¶ 20(a) is not established for SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.c, 1.e, or 1.f. Applicant's delinquent 
debts are recent, numerous, and ongoing, which cast doubt on her current reliability, 
trustworthiness, and judgment. 
AG ¶ 20(b) is not established for SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.c, 1.e, or 1.f. Applicant’s divorce 
and underemployment are mitigating conditions largely beyond her control. However, she 
did not provide evidence to support her assertions that her former spouse had not fulfilled 
his legal obligations. She did not provide sufficient evidence showing that she was in a 
payment plan or attempted to establish payment plans for SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.c. She has 
filed for Chapter 7 Bankruptcy twice, most recently in April 2021. Insufficient time has 
elapsed since her most recent discharge of her debts in bankruptcy in September 2021 
to establish a track record of financial stability, living within her means, and satisfying her 
debts. While the 2009 bankruptcy may have been triggered by a farming business , no 
5 
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
   
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
       
   
  
     
    
      
     
 
 
  
    
     
    
 
 
   
 
supporting evidence was provided to explain the circumstances involving the $2 million 
in liabilities. She failed to show she acted responsibly under the circumstances. 
AG ¶  20(b) is established for SOR ¶¶ 1. b  and 1.d.  The record reflects  Applicant  
did negotiate a resolution of  the debt in  SOR  ¶  1.b. The record supports that the SOR ¶ 
1.d  debt  was  a joint debt, which  had only  been delinquent for 30 days  at th e  time of the  
November 2024 credit report . There is insufficient  evidence to show that she has an  
inability to satisfy  this debt.  
Whole-Person Concept  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. In applying the whole-
person concept, an administrative judge must evaluate an applicant’s eligibility for a 
security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct and all relevant 
circumstances. An administrative judge should consider the nine adjudicative process 
factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
I have incorporated my comments under Guideline F in my whole-person analysis 
and applied the adjudicative factors in AG ¶ 2(d). Because Applicant requested a 
determination on the record without a hearing, I had no opportunity to evaluate h er 
credibility and sincerity based on demeanor. See ISCR Case No. 01-12350 at 3-4 (App. 
Bd. Jul. 23, 2003). After weighing the disqualifying and mitigating conditions under 
Guideline F and evaluating all the evidence in the context of the whole person, I conclude 
Applicant has not mitigated the concerns raised by her financial considerations. 
This decision should not be construed as a determination that Applicant cannot or 
will not attain the state of reform necessary for award of a security clearance in the future. 
With more effort towards establishment of a track record of satisfying her debts and 
documenting her actions she may well be able to demonstrate persuasive evidence of 
her security clearance worthiness in the future. 
Formal Findings  
I make the following formal findings on the allegations in the SOR: 
6 
 
 
    
  
   
 
 
        
 
 
       
      
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
Paragraph 1, G
 uideline F:  
Subp
aragraphs  1.b, 1.d:  
Subparagraphs  1.a,  1.c,  1.e,  1.f:   
AGAINST APPLICANT  
For  Applicant  
Against Applicant  
Conclusion  
I concl
ude that it is not clearly consistent with the national security interests of the 
United States to grant Applicant eligibility for access to classified information. Clearance 
is denied. 
Charles C. Hale 
Administrative Judge 
7 