 
 
 
                                                              
    
                       DEPARTMENT  OF DEFENSE  
    DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS       
           
             
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
     
 
         
        
      
    
         
  
     
     
          
 
 
       
           
          
              
______________ 
______________ 
In  the  matter of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR  Case No.  24-00923  
  )    
 )  
Applicant for Security Clearance  )  
Appearances  
For Government: Andrew Henderson, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
02/03/2025 
Decision  
LOKEY ANDERSON, Darlene D., Administrative Judge: 
Statement of Case  
On March 30, 2023, Applicant submitted a security clearance application (e-QIP). 
On July 12, 2024 , the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency Consolidated 
Adjudication Services (DCAS CAS) issued Applicant a Statement of Reasons (SOR), 
detailing security concerns under Guideline F, Financial Considerations. The action was 
taken under Executive Order 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry 
(February 20, 1960), as amended; DoD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel 
Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and 
the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to 
Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective within the 
DoD after June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR on September 20, 2024 , and requested a hearing 
before an administrative judge. The case was assigned to me on November 13, 2024. 
The Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals issued a notice of hearing on November 
19, 2024, and the hearing was convened as scheduled on December 12, 2024 . The 
1 
 
 
 
       
           
         
               
 
 
 
 
          
       
           
     
 
 
       
     
       
 
 
        
         
              
     
            
   
 
         
            
              
      
         
    
            
       
       
 
 
         
           
        
            
        
          
           
                
Government offered seven exhibits, referred to as Government Exhibits 1 through 7, 
which were admitted without objection. Applicant offered ten exhibits, referr ed to as 
Applicant’s Exhibit s A through J, which w ere admitted without objection. Applicant 
testified on h is own behalf. D OHA received the final transcript of the hearing (Tr.) on 
December 23, 2024. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 46 years old . He is married and has three children. He has a 
Bachelor’s degree and extensive military training. He holds the position of Senior 
Analyst for a defense contractor . He is seeking to obtain a security clearance in 
connection with his employment. 
Guideline F - Financial Considerations  
The Government alleged that Applicant is ineligible for a clearance because he 
made financial decisions that indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which raise questions about h is 
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information. 
The SOR alleged that Applicant has five delinquent accounts owed to creditors 
that were charged off or placed for collection totaling approximately $ 68,000. In h is 
answer, Applicant admits each of the allegations set forth in the SOR. Credit reports of 
the Applicant dated May 4, 2023; December 5, 2023; and November 4, 2024 , confirm 
that he was at one time indebted to each of the creditors listed in the SOR. 
(Government Exhibits 4, 5, and 6.) 
In the fall of 2002, Applicant entered the Navy D elayed Entry Program. In 
February 2003, he started Officer Candidate School . From 2003 to February 20, 2020, 
he served on active duty in the Navy. After seventeen years on active duty, to his 
disappointment he was passed over for command promotion, and voluntarily 
transitioned to the reserves. His wife was unhappy with his current duty station , and he 
was unhappy about being passed over for command. The reserves was a viable option. 
While in the reserves, Applicant activated and deployed to Japan taking his family with 
him, for eighteen months beginning in October 2020 . Applicant retired from the 
reserves on December 1, 2023, as an 0-5, Commander. Applicant started working as 
an Engineer for his current employer in April 2022. 
Applicant stated that he had no financial problems until February 2020. Although 
he had previously credit card and personal loan debt, he had always serviced the debt 
each month in a timely fashion. However, after February 2020, he was spending more 
money than he was earning, and he was falling farther behind on his bills. He explained 
that f rom 2017 to 2020, he accepted a billet for a three -year assignment located in 
Norfolk, Virginia, that he thought would help his career. His wife was not happy about it, 
and to make appease her, he moved her and the family not far from Norfolk into an 
oceanfront beach house to live for three years. The beach house was in an area that 
2 
 
 
 
       
          
      
          
               
   
 
        
       
          
       
           
           
     
 
      
         
       
          
         
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
was more affluent, with a higher cost of living. The beach house rental was expensive 
and cost roughly $500 more a month than the basic housing allowance Applicant was 
receiving. At the same time , Applicant was applying for personal loans and pulling 
money out of his brokerage account to pay his wife’s college tuition. Their plan was to 
send her to college to obtain a degree to help her start a career. This created more 
financial strain. 
Applicant stated that the pandemic resulted in his delayed start, his wife was 
layed off from both of her previous jobs, and they spent a month in March 2020, without 
income. They lived off of their savings that month and then i n April 2020, Applicant 
began earning about $100,000 annually. He stated that he used his income at that time 
to pay his rent, the utilities, and the car payments. He made the conscious decision not 
to pay his delinquent debts because he was never in a position to bring the accounts 
current. (Tr. p. 61.) 
In April 2022, Applicant began working for his current employer . After he 
received the SOR in July 2024, he reached out to his creditors and began to address 
his delinquent debts . The debts that are being paid through installment agreements 
started in August 2024. After his wife completed her education, she started working full 
time in March 2024, and she now contributes her income to pay for household 
expenses. 
The following delinquent debts listed in the SOR are of security concern: 
1.a.  Applicant is indebted  to  a  credit union  for an  account that  was placed  for 
collection  in the  approximate  amount of $26,055.   Applicant stated  that this is a personal  
loan,  which  he  used  to  pay for his wife’s tuition.  He has now reached  a  settlement of  
the  debt  in the  amount  of $11,725.  He has set up  an  installment  plan  of  36 payments of  
$325.70  monthly.   The  payments  started  in  August 2024  and  will  continue  each  month  
until the  debt is paid  in full.  At the  time  of the  hearing,  Applicant had  made  four  
payments.  His last  payment to  resolve  the  debt  in full  will  be  in  July 2027.   (Tr. pp. 69-
71, and Applicant’s Exhibit D.)    
1.b.  Applicant  is indebted  to  a  credit  union  for a  delinquent credit  card account  
that  was placed  for collection  in  the  approximate  amount of $14,368.   Applicant has no  
idea  what he  purchased  with  the  credit card.   Applicant stated  that he  settled  the  
account for an  unknown amount on  August  15, 2024.  He received  a  bonus from  his  
employer that he  used  to  resolve the  debt.   (Tr. pp. 80-81  and  Tr.p.  83, and  Applicant’s  
Exhibit E.)    
1.c.   Applicant is indebted  to  a  creditor for a  brokerage  account that was placed  
for collection  in  the  approximate  amount of $13,030.   Applicant stated  that he  has tried  
to  settle the  debt  with  the  creditor but  has not  been  successful.  Since  August 2024, he  
has voluntarily made  payments  of  $250  each  month  to  the  creditor until they reach  a  
settlement agreement  or until the  debt is paid in full.   (Tr. pp. 74-76.)     
3 
 
 
 
 
 
     
    
         
   
 
      
    
    
 
 
 
 
      
        
       
         
   
 
          
    
           
      
      
        
            
 
 
1.d.  Applicant  is indebted  to  a  creditor for a  student loan  that was charged-off  in  
the  approximate  amount of $28,000.  Applicant explained  that  this  was a  personal loan  
he took out  for his wife ’s  college  tuition.  He  initially borrowed  about  $20,000,  but  with  
penalties and  interest  the  debt has  climbed  to  about  $28,000.  He has reached  a  
settlement of the  debt in the  amount  of  $11,308.50,  payable  in  30  installments of   
$376.95  each  month.   His first  payment  was made  on  August  20,  2024,  which  will  
continue  each  month  until the  debt  is paid in  full  in January 2027.   (Tr. p.  76-78,  and  
Applicant’s Exhibit F.)     
1.e.  Applicant is indebted  to  a  credit  union  for an account that was charged  off  in  
the  approximate  amount of $14,881.   On  August 29, 2024, Applicant  settled  this  
account  for $4,000.  He made  two  payments of $1,860.21  for a  total of $3,720.42.   
Applicant stated  that he  withdrew the  money from  his 401K  to  settle  the  debt.   The  debt  
has been  resolved  in full  and  is no  longer owing.   (Tr. pp. 79- 80  and  Applicant’s Exhibit  
H.)               
Applicant’s Personal Financial Worksheet dated November 27, 2024 , indicates 
that after making his regular monthly payments and paying his delinquent debt monthly 
installments, he has a net remainder of $2,408 left at the end of the month. He can 
comfortably pay his delinquent debt. (Applicant’s Exhibit A.) 
Applicant’s Navy Fitness Report and Counseling Record for the period from May 
1, 2021, through March 31, 2022, as a Commander, reflects ratings of “above 
standards” or “greatly exceeds standards” in every category. (Applicant’s Exhibit J.) 
Applicant received  a  certificate  for  receiving  financial  counseling  from  In  Charge  
Debt Solutions, dated  December 30, 2021.  (Applicant’s Exhibit I.)  
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The 
administrative judge’s over arching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial , and 
commonsense decision. The entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number o f 
variables known as the whole-person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
4 
 
 
 
      
    
        
           
        
 
 
 
           
   
  
              
      
       
        
  
 
          
               
       
   
 
 
 
 
       
 
     
   
            
   
      
          
     
    
    
        
       
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I 
have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical and based on the 
evidence contained in the record. Likewise, I have avoided drawing inferences 
grounded on mere speculation or conjecture. 
Under  Directive ¶  E3.1.14, the  government must  present evidence  to  establish  
controverted  facts alleged  in the  SOR. Under Directive ¶  E3.1.15, the  applicant  is  
responsible  for presenting  “witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate,  
or mitigate  facts admitted  by the  applicant or proven  by Department Counsel. ” The   
applicant  has  the  ultimate  burden  of  persuasion  to  obtain  a  favorable  clearance  
decision.   
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The g overnment 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to 
potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline F -  Financial Considerations  
The security concern for Financial Considerations is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
Affluence that cannot be explained by known sources of income is also a 
5 
 
 
 
  
 
 
    
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
            
          
    
 
       
   
 
 
 
 
   
        
         
        
           
     
             
security concern insofar as it may result from criminal activity, including 
espionage. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. Three are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) inability or unwillingness to satisfy debts;    
(c)  a history of not meeting financial obligations; and  
(e)  consistent spending  beyond  one’s means or frivolous or irresponsible   
spending, which  may be  indicated  by excessive indebtedness, significant  
negative  cash  flow,  a  history of late  payments or of  non-payment,  or other  
negative financial indicators.  
Applicant is a retired Navy Commander who has a history of financial hardship 
brought on by poor choices he made to live beyond his means. His actions or inactions 
both demonstrated a history of not addressing h is debt in a timely fashion and/or an 
inability to do so. The evidence is sufficient to raise the above disqualifying conditions. 
The following m itigating conditions under the Financial Considerations guideline 
are potentially applicable under AG ¶ 20. 
(a)  the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or occurred  
under such  circumstances that it is unlikely to  recur and  does not cast  
doubt on   the  individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good   
judgment;  
(b)  the  conditions  that resulted  in the  financial problem  were largely  
beyond  the  person’s  control (e.g. loss   of employment, a   business  
downturn, unexpected  medical emergency, or a  death, divorce,  or  
separation), and  the individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;   
(d) the  individual  initiated  and  is adhering  to  a  good  faith  effort to  repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  and   
(e) the  individual has  a  reasonable basis to  dispute  the  legitimacy  of the  
past-due  debt which  is the  cause  of the  problem  and  provides  
documented  proof  to  substantiate  the  basis  of  the  dispute  or provides  
evidence  of actions to  resolve the issue.  
Applicant’s excessive spending has contributed to his financial problems. He has 
made some poor fina ncial decisions without considering the consequences and the 
affects it might have on his security clearance. He has recently re-directed his focus at 
resolving his delinquent debts. He now realizes his serious mistake and the fact that he 
should have addressed his delinquent debts sooner, in fact as soon as he earned 
enough money to do so. Instead , he waited to pay his delinquent debts when it became 
6 
 
 
 
            
        
          
         
      
            
       
      
 
         
        
         
       
         
        
            
 
 
 
          
      
         
    
  
 
      
       
        
          
            
        
         
       
 
 
       
          
     
more convenient for him. He was wrong. I n order to be eligible for a security clearance 
an individual must be responsible and trustworthy in every aspect of h is life, including 
his finances. At this point, he has paid off or settled two of his delinquent debts, and he 
is making monthly payments to resolve the others. Although he has not established a 
long track record, he has demonstrated a short track record of payments, or systematic 
monthly payments, for the past four months and plans to continue those payments each 
month, without interruption , until the debt s are completely resolved. He intends to 
resolve each of his debts as swiftly as possible. 
Applicant is currently focusing on resolving his delinquent debt. Although he still 
remains excessively indebted to several of his creditors, he has reached settlement 
agreements, and set up installment plans that he is following . He and his wife are 
gainfully employed and earn sufficient monies to resolve these delinquent debts. Under 
the circumstances he has recently shown the requisite good judgment and responsibility 
to access classified information. There is sufficient evidence in the record to show that 
the Applicant has carried h is burden of proof to establish mitigation of the government 
security concerns under Guideline F. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole -person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of  
rehabilitation  and  other permanent  behavioral changes;  (7) the  motivation  
for the  conduct;  (8) the  potential  for pressure, coercion,  exploitation, or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood  of continuation  or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2( c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole -person concept. Applicant must continue 
to follow through with h is commitment to resolve his delinquent debts to show financial 
responsibility. He must continue to demonstrate that he can resolve h is debts and live 
within h is means, to demonstrate financial responsib ility. Assuming he continues to 
following these conditions, he will maintain eligibility for access to classified information. 
In the event that he does not make his bills a priority to res olve, his security clearance 
will be in immediately jeopardy. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
relevant facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I conclude App licant has 
mitigated the Financial Considerations security concern. 
7 
 
 
 
 
      
   
 
    
 
        
 
   
 
         
       
   
 
                                                
 
 
 
 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by ¶ E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  F: FOR  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a., through  1.e.  For Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue Applicant’s eligibility for 
a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Darlene Lokey Anderson 
Administrative Judge 
8 