         
    
    
 
    
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
    
      
     
   
  
   
     
   
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEF
ENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-02106 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Andre M. Gregorian, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
08/06/2025 
Decision 
BLAZEWICK, Robert B., Chief Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not mitigate the security concerns under Guidelines H (Drug 
Involvement and Substance Misuse) and E (Personal Conduct) . Eligibility for access t o 
classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
On January 9, 20 25, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement o f 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guidelines H and E. 
Applicant responded to the SOR on January 27, 2025 (Answer) and requested a 
decision on the written record in lieu of a hearing. The Government’s written case was 
submitted on February 26, 2025. A complete copy of the file of relevant material 
(FORM) was provided to Applicant, who was afforded an opportunity to file objections 
and submit material to refute, extenuate, o r mitigate the security concerns . Applicant 
received the FORM on March 4, 2025 . He timely submitted documentation, which were 
labeled as Applicant’s Exhibits (AE) A through I. The case was assigned o n May 7, 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
    
    
     
     
    
         
      
 
        
  
      
   
   
 
    
   
 
   
    
  
   
   
  
  
  
 
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
     
2025. The Government exhibits included in the FORM and AE A -I are admitted in 
evidence without objection. 
Findings of Fact  
The SOR alleges that Applicant used marijuana from May 2008 to March 2022 
(SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 2.a ); that he used marijuana while working on school grounds from 
October 2016 to February 2019 (SOR ¶¶ 1.b, 2.a); that he used an illegal drug 
(marijuana) after being granted a security clearance in November 2021 (SOR ¶¶ 1.c, 
2.a); and that he falsified material facts on his security clearance application (SCA) in 
2021 when he failed to disclose his marijuana use (SOR ¶ 2.b). In his Answer, Applicant 
admitted all the allegations without further explanation. 
Applicant is 31 years old. He is engaged, has never married, and does not have 
children. He earned a general educational development certificate (GED) in 2012 and 
did not serve in the military . He has been employed with a defense contractor since 
December 2020 and switched to a different defense contractor in December 2023 . He 
was granted a clearance in 2021. (Items 3-5; AE B) 
Applicant first completed a SCA in June 2021. When asked whether he had used 
any illegal drugs or controlled substances in the last seven years, he answered “no.” In 
December 2023, he completed a second SCA. When asked whether he had used any 
illegal drugs or controlled substances in the last seven years, he answered “yes,” and 
reported that he had used marijuana from May 2008 to March 2022, including while 
holding a security clearance. He stated he used marijuana to help with back pain 
because he wanted to avoid addictive pain medications, and that the frequency of his 
use started as weekly but decreased as he got older. He stated that he does not intend 
to ever use marijuana in the future and that he is “100% sober.” The second SCA also 
included several other pieces of information not included in the first SCA, such as his 
educational background and three additional relatives. (Items 3-4) 
Applicant was interviewed by a background investigator in September 2024. He 
stated that he used marijuana from May 2017 to March 2022 recreationally with friends 
about twice a month. He would typically smoke marijuana alone or with one of two 
friends. He purchased marijuana from dispensaries in his state several times. He also 
admitted that he used marijuana several times with his friend while in a cleared position. 
He regretted doing this and did not realize how significant it was. He eventually stopped 
using marijuana entirely because he did not like how it made him feel, he wanted to 
advance in his career, and he knew it was federally illegal. He told the investigator that 
he does not intend to use marijuana again. (Item 5) 
During his 2024 background interview, Applicant also admitted that, while 
working at a high school from October 2016 to February 2019, he smoked marijuana at 
least twice with his coworker on school grounds. At the time, he did not think about the 
2 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
    
  
 
 
    
   
 
   
     
    
   
 
  
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
    
     
    
  
 
 
      
  
  
     
    
  
      
 
 
   
   
    
   
fact that school zones prohibited drug use. He did not recall getting caught or receiving 
any warnings or reprimands. (Item 5) 
In his December 2024 response to an interrogatory, Applicant reported marijuana 
use from May 2017 to March 2022, with a twice- monthly frequency. He reported that he 
did not have any intentions of future use due to concerns for his career and personal 
health and well-being. (Item 5) 
In his March 2025 response to the FORM, Applicant submitted a written 
statement in which he explained that the omission of his drug use on the first SCA was 
not intentional or deliberate, but rather a misunderstanding of the reporting 
requirements. He stated his last use of marijuana was “over a year ago” and that he has 
completely severed ties with the individuals with whom he used drugs. He explained 
that his personal life is very different now: he is engaged, his fiancée has two children, 
and they are purchasing a home together. He is also very dedicated to his work and 
advancing in his career. He expressed deep remorse and acknowledged his past 
mistakes. He is willing to submit to additional monitoring, training, and drug testing. (AE 
B) 
Applicant submitted seven letters of support from supervisors and colleagues . 
They praise his dedication, honesty, professionalism, trustworthiness, generosity, and 
integrity. (AE C-I) 
Policies  
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines (AG ) implement ed by 
the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” EO 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and 
3 
 
 
 
 
     
   
 
     
  
  
   
   
   
 
 
 
   
      
     
      
  
    
   
    
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
      
  
 
 
 
 
commonsense decision. An administrative judge must consider all available and reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance dec isions must  be made “in terms of  the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.”  EO  10865 §  
7. Thus, a  decision to deny  a security  clearance  is  merely an indication the applicant  
has not met the strict guidelines  the President  and the Secretary of Defense have  
established for issuing  a clearance.  
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in 
the personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant 
from being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden 
of establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan at 531. “Substantial 
evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. Washington 
Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines presume a 
nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria listed 
therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 15-01253 at 3 (App. 
Bd. Apr. 20, 2016). 
Once the  G overnment establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial  
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive  ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of  proving a mitigating condition,  
and the burden of disproving it  never shifts to the  Government.  See  ISCR Case No.  02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep.  22,  2005).   
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent 
with the national interest to grant or continue his security clearance.” ISCR Case No. 
01-20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, 
if they must, on the side of denials.” Egan at 531. 
Analysis  
Guideline H, Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse   
The concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 24: 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
   
     
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of  
prescription an d non-prescription drugs, and  the use of other substances  
that cause physical  or mental impairment or are used in a manner  
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions  about an  
individual’s reliability  and trustworthiness,  both because such behavior  
may lead to physical  or psychological impairment  and because it  raises  
questions about  a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules,  
and regulations.  Controlled substance  means any “controlled substance”  
as defined in 21 U.S.C. 802.  Substance misuse  is the generic term  
adopted in this guideline to describe any of  the behaviors listed above.  
Applicant’s admissions and the evidence in the FORM establish the following 
disqualifying conditions under this guideline: 
AG  ¶ 25(a): any  substance misuse (see above definition);  an
 d  
AG ¶ 25( f):  any illegal drug use while granted access to classified  
inf
ormation or holding a sensitive position.  
The f
ollowing mitigating conditions are potentially applicable: 
AG ¶ 26(a) :  the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or  
happen
ed under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or does not  
cast doubt  on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  
judgment;  
AG ¶  26(b):  the individual  ac knowledges his  or her drug involvement  and  
substance misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this  
problem,  and has  established a pattern of  abstinence, including,  but not  
limited to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-usi ng associates and contacts;  
(2) changing or  avoi ding the environment where drugs were used;  
and  
(3) providing a signed statement  of i ntent to abstain from  all drug  
involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future  
involvement  or misuse is grounds for revocation of  national security  
eligibility.  
AG ¶ 26(a)
 is not established. Applicant’s involvement was weekly or twice 
monthly over the course of 14 years and did not occur under circumstances making 
recurrence unlikely. The key issue is whether it is mitigated by the passage of time. The 
first prong of AG ¶ 26(a) (happened so long ago) focuses on whether the drug 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
   
 
 
   
   
  
  
     
  
  
 
   
      
   
    
     
   
    
 
    
   
  
   
 
    
    
  
    
 
 
  
 
  
    
   
   
 
  
   
  
      
involvement was recent. There are no bright -line rules for determining when conduct is 
recent. If the evidence shows that a significant period of time has passed without any 
evidence of misconduct, then an administrative judge must determine whether that 
period of time demonstrates changed circumstances or conduct sufficient to warrant a 
finding of reform or rehabilitation. ISCR Case No. 02- 24452 at 6 (App. Bd. Aug. 4, 
2004). 
Applicant reported using marijuana from 14 years old to at least 28 years old, 
ceasing three years ago—several months after he had been granted a security 
clearance. While under some circumstances a three- year period could be considered a 
significant period of time, when contrasted with Applicant’s 14-year history of marijuana 
use and the fact that his drug use was not able to be examined and adjudicated in his 
first background investigation due to his failure to disclose it , it is not a sufficiently 
lengthy period of abstinence to fully establish the mitigating condition. 
Furthermore, the information he has provided about his marijuana use has been 
inconsistent: as discussed below, he initially reported that he did not use marijuana at 
all. He then reported wildly varying dates of use, either beginning in May 2008 or May 
2017, and he listed his last date of use as March 2022. I n March 2025, however, he 
described his last use as “over a year ago .” While technically he could be referring to 
March 2022, i t is an odd way to describe three years of sobriety and calls his last -use 
date into question. O n his second SCA , he reported taking marijuana for back pain to 
avoid more addictive drugs, but elsewhere he reports using marijuana recreationally 
with friends. It also seems unlikely he was using marijuana to treat back pain at the age 
of 14. With this degree of conflicting , inconsistent information in the record, it is not 
possible to draw reasonable, favorable conclusions regarding whether sufficient time 
has passed since his last use. 
In addition to the inconsistencies noted in Applicant’s reporting, he has also 
displayed a pattern of particularly poor judgment and disregard for rules and regulations 
when it comes to how his marijuana use impacts his employment , specifically using 
during work on school grounds while working at a high school and use after being 
granted a security clearance and while working in a cleared position . Although the use 
on school grounds was at least six years ago, the behavior is still relevant given the 
later use of marijuana after being granted a security clearance and while working in a 
cleared position. B oth of these positions required a high level of trust in Applicant, 
including trust that Applicant would comply with his employer’s prohibitions against drug 
use. Applicant betrayed that trust in both positions over the course of years . His 
repeated pattern of poor judgment and disregard for rules and regulations is unmitigated 
and an ongoing concern. 
Taken together, the span of use, the unresolved inconsistencies in Applicant’s 
reporting about his use, and the exceedingly poor judgment he exercised when 
choosing to use marijuana in positions of trust, cast doubt on his current reliability, 
trustworthiness, or good judgment. AG ¶ 26(a) is not established for Applicant’s 
6 
 
 
 
 
   
     
 
    
     
     
  
    
     
  
  
 
 
    
 
  
     
    
 
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
marijuana use, his use while working on school grounds, and his use after being 
granted a security clearance and while working in a cleared position. (SOR ¶ 1.a-c) 
AG ¶ 26(b) is not fully established. Applicant Exhibit B essentially serves as a 
signed statement of intent, and in it , Applicant attests that he has disassociated from 
drug-using associates and has changed or avoided the environment where marijuana 
was used. He also submitted numerous recommendations regarding his character. 
Though I gave considerable weight to this evidence, his lengthy history of drug use, 
inconsistent narrative of his drug use, and his use while at work on school grounds, and 
his use while granted a security clearance and while working in a cleared position 
lessens the credibility and sincerity of his statement and the impact of his 
recommendations. 
Guideline  E, Personal  Conduct  
The security concern for personal conduct is set out in AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to 
cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 16. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) deliberate omission, concealment,  or f
 alsification of relevant facts from  
any  personnel security questionnaire, personal history statement, or  
similar form  used to conduct investigations, determine employment  
qualifications, award  benefits  or status, determine security clearance  
eligibility or trustworthiness,  or award fiduciary  responsibilities;   
(c) credible adverse information in several adjudicative issue areas that is  
not s
ufficient  for an adverse determination under any  other single  
guideline, but  which, when considered as a whole,  supports  a whole-
person assessment of questionable judgment, untrustworthiness,  
unreliability, lack of  candor, unwillingness to comply with rules and  
regulations,  or other  characteristics indicating that the individual  may not  
properly safeguard classified or sensitive information; and  
(d) credible adverse information that is not explicitly covered under any  
other  gui
deline and may not be sufficient by itself for an adverse  
determination,  but which, when combined with all available information,  
supports a whole- person assessment  of questionable judgment,  
7 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
      
  
    
    
      
  
    
     
    
 
  
   
      
 
  
 
   
   
 
 
  
  
   
    
      
   
 
     
    
 
untrustworthiness, unreliability, lack of candor, unwillingness to comply 
with rules and regulations, or other characteristics indicating that the 
individual may not properly safeguard classified or sensitive information. 
This includes, but is not limited to, consideration of: 
(1) untrustworthy or  unr
 eliable behavior to include breach of client  
confidentiality, release of proprietary information, unauthorized  
release of sensitive corporate or government  protected information;  
(2) any disruptive, violent,  or ot her inappropriate behavior;  
(3)  a pattern of disho nesty or rule violations.  
Appli
cant was a regular user of marijuana for over a decade and chose to use 
drugs while working at a high school and after being granted a security clearance and 
while working in a cleared position. As discussed in my Guideline H analysis above, 
taken together, t his behavior illustrates a pattern of poor judgment and rule- breaking 
and clearly establishes AG ¶¶ 16(c) and 16(d) with respect to SOR ¶ 2.a. 
Though Applicant initially admitted to allegation SOR ¶ 2.b in his Answer, in AE B 
he denied deliberately falsifying material facts as alleged. When a falsification allegation 
is controverted, as in SOR ¶ 2.b, the Government has the burden of proving it. An 
omission, standing alone, does not prove falsification. An administrative judge must 
consider the record evidence as a whole to determine an applicant’s state of mind at the 
time of the omission. See ISCR Case No. 03 -09483 at 4 (App. Bd. Nov. 17, 2004). An 
applicant’s experience and level of education are relevant to determining whether a 
failure to disclose relevant information on a security clearance application was 
deliberate. ISCR Case No. 08-05637 (App. Bd. Sep. 9, 2010). 
Applicant did not graduate high school, instead earning a GED. He did not serve 
in the military. His 2021 SCA was the first time he had applied for a security clearance. 
Of particular significance is the fact that he omitted a number of facts on the first SCA, 
which indicates that the drug use-related omission was likely an oversight or accident by 
a person with no prior experience working with the government or holding a security 
clearance. Applicant was forthcoming in reporting his drug use on the second SCA and 
in his subsequent background interview. In light of these facts, and in the absence of 
evidence of deliberate falsification, I am not persuaded that Applicant deliberately 
falsified material facts with regard to his drug use. AG ¶ 16(a) is not established for the 
conduct alleged in SOR ¶ 2.b. 
AG ¶ 17 provides conditions that could mitigate personal conduct security 
concerns. The following mitigating conditions potentially apply in Applicant's case: 
(c) the offense is so minor, or so much time has  pass
 ed,  or the behavior  
is so infrequent,  or it happened under such unique circumstances that  it  is 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
      
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
    
 
  
 
 
    
  
  
    
 
 
 
unlikely to recur and does not cast doubt  on the individual ’s reliability,  
trustworthiness, or  good judgment; and  
(d)  the individual has acknowledged the behavior and obtained  
couns
eling to change the behavior or taken other positive steps to  
alleviate the stressors, circumstances  or  factors that contributed to  
untrustworthy, unreliable,  or other  inappropriate behavior, and such  
behavior is unlikely to recur.  
In li
ght of my findings under Guideline H , neither AG ¶ 17(c) nor AG ¶ 17(d) are 
established for ¶ 2.a. Although Applicant provided evidence that he has changed his 
behavior and that he is highly regarded in his field, the concerns surrounding Applicant’s 
overall course of conduct when he was using marijuana undercut the evidence in 
mitigation. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. In applying the whole-
person concept, an administrative judge must evaluate an applicant ’s eligibility for a 
security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct and all relevant 
circumstances. An a dministrative judge should consider the nine adjudicative pr ocess 
factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5)  the  extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of  
rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation  
for the conduct; (8) the potential for  pressure, coercion, exploitation,  or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.   
I have incorporated my comments under Guidelines H and E in my whole-person 
analysis and applied the adjudicative factors in AG ¶ 2(d). Because Applicant requested 
a determination on the record without a hearing, I had no opportunity to evaluate his 
credibility and sincerity based on demeanor. See ISCR Case No. 01-12350 at 3-4 (App. 
Bd. Jul. 23, 2003). 
“Once a concern arises regarding an applicant’s security clearance eligibility,  
there is  a strong presumption against the grant or  maintenance of a security clearance.”  
ISCR Case No.  09-01652 at 3 (App. Bd.  Aug. 8, 2011),  citing Dorfmont v. Brown , 913 
F.2d 1399, 1401 (9
th  Cir. 1990),  cert. denied,  4999 U.S. 905 (1991). Applicant  has not  
overcome this presumption.  After  weighing the disqualifying and mitigating conditions  
9 
 
 
 
 
    
     
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
    
 
    
 
 
         
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
________________________ 
under Guidelines H and E and evaluating all the evidence in the context of the whole 
person, I conclude Applicant has not mitigated the security concerns raised by his drug 
involvement and substance misuse and personal conduct. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, G
 uideline H  (Drugs/Misuse):  AGAINST APPLICANT  
Subp
aragraphs  1.a-1.c:  Against Applicant  
Paragraph 2, Guideline E (Personal Conduct):  AGAINST APPLICANT  
Subparagraph 2. a:   Against Applicant  
Subparagraph 2.b:   For Applicant  
Conclusion  
I c
onclude that it is not clearly consistent with the interests of national security to 
grant Applicant eligibility for access to classified information. Clearance is denied. 
Robert B. Blazewick 
Chief Administrative Judge 
10 