 
 
 
                                                              
           
             
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
    
 
 
 
     
       
      
          
        
        
      
     
 
  
 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS  
EA 
c; 
... 7 
o _.~ .t::~! ~ o 
\\ 
00 
______________ 
______________ 
In  the  matter of:  )  
 )  
 [Redacted]  )   ISCR  Case No.24-01304   
 )  
Applicant for Security Clearance  )  
Appearances  
For Government: Brian Farrell, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
01/27/2025 
Decision  
FOREMAN, LeRoy F., Administrative Judge: 
This case involves security concerns raised under Guideline J (Criminal Conduct), 
G (Alcohol Consumption), and E (Personal Conduct) . Eligibility for access to classified 
information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on September 27, 
2023. On September 9, 2024 , the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
(DCSA) sent him a Statement of Reasons (SOR) alleging security concerns under 
Guidelines J, G, and E . The DCSA acted under Executive Order ( Exec. Or.) 10865, 
Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 19 60), as amended ; 
Department of Defense ( DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security 
Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the 
adjudicative guidelines (AG) promulgated in Security Executive Agent Directive 4, 
National Security Adjudicative Guidelines (December 10, 2016), which became effective 
on June 8, 2017. 
1 
 
 
 
          
           
       
        
       
           
 
 
              
       
   
 
 
 
               
     
 
       
  
 
          
       
            
 
 
          
            
    
      
  
 
          
      
 
 
     
         
 
 
       
             
   
 
Applicant answered the SOR on October 15, 2024, and requested a decision on 
the written record in lieu of a hearing. Department Counsel submitted the Government’s 
written case on November 8, 2024 . A complete copy of the file of relevant material 
(FORM) was sent to Applicant, who was given an opportunity to file objections and submit 
material to refute, extenuate, or mitigate the Government’s evidence. He received the 
FORM on November 19, 2024 , and did not respond. The case was assigned to me on 
January 14, 2025. 
The FORM consists of four items. Items 1 and 2 are the pleadings in the case. 
Items 3 and 4 are the evidence submitted by Department Counsel in support of the 
allegations in the SOR. Applicant did not object to any items in the FORM. Items 3 and 4 
are admitted in evidence. 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted all the allegations in the SOR. His 
admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact. 
Applicant is a 61 -year-old carpenter employed by a defense contractor . He has 
never married and has no children. He has never held a security clearance. 
The SOR alleges five incidents of driving while intoxicated (DWI). SOR ¶ 1.a 
alleges that, in April 2014, Applicant was arrested for DWI, convicted, and sentenced to 
five years in prison. He was paroled in 2017 for the remaining time on his prison sentence. 
(GX 4 at 17) 
SOR ¶ 1.b alleges that, in August 2003, Applicant was arrested for DWI, convicted, 
and sentenced to five years in prison, served one year, and was paroled for the remainder 
of his prison term. When he was interviewed by a security investigator in February 2024, 
he stated that he was sentenced to four years in prison, not five years as alleged. (GX 4 
at 17) 
SOR ¶¶ 1.c, 1.d, and 1.e allege arrests for DWI in February 2000, August 1996, 
and January 1991. The SOR does not allege any prison sentences or other disposition 
for these arrests. 
Applicant admitted the arrests, convictions, and sentences in his security interview 
in February 2024 and his answer to the SOR. In his security interview, he admitted that 
he was charged with and convicted of felonies for the DWIs in 2014, 2003, and 2000. 
SOR ¶ 2.a alleges that Applicant has consumed alcohol, at times to excess and to 
the point of intoxication since about 1978 to at least September 2024. Applicant admitted 
this allegation in his security interview and his answer to the SOR. 
2 
 
 
 
    
       
 
 
 
 
       
         
          
           
             
             
       
         
         
 
 
 
        
          
           
       
       
      
       
 
       
        
 
         
      
       
    
 
           
   
         
      
         
    
 
 
        
              
          
SOR ¶ 2.b alleges that until January 2024, Applicant drank alcohol before driving 
approximately every two weeks. Applicant admitted this conduct during his security 
interview and answer to the SOR. 
SOR ¶ 2.c cross-alleges the conduct alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.e. 
SOR ¶ 3.a alleges that Applicant falsified his September 2023 SCA. When 
Applicant submitted his SCA, he answered “No” to a question asking if he had ever been 
convicted of a crime and sentence d to imprisonment for more than one year and 
incarcerated for not less than one year. He also answered “No” to a question asking if he 
had ever been charged with a felony. Finally, he answered “No” to a question asking if he 
had ever been charged with an offense involv ing alcohol or drugs. During his security 
interview, he told the investigator that he did not disclose his felony convictions , prison 
sentences, and alcohol -related charges because he had mentioned them at work and 
believed that security investigators would find out about them. He admitted the 
falsifications in his answer to the SOR. 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
decision. An a dministrative judge must consider all available and reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865 
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant 
3 
 
 
 
      
   
 
    
    
        
       
            
          
         
       
      
     
       
         
        
          
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
     
       
          
  
 
 
 
has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have 
established for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for acc ess to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan at 531. Substantial 
evidence is “such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to 
support a conclusion in light of all the contrary evidence in the same record.” See ISCR 
Case No. 17 -04166 at 3 (App. Bd. Mar. 21, 2019) It is “less than the weight of the 
evidence, and the possibility of drawing two inconsistent conclusions from the evidence 
does not prevent [a Judge’s] finding from being supported by substantial evidence.” 
Consolo v. Federal Maritime Comm’n, 383 U.S. 607, 620 (1966). “Substantial evidence” 
is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. Washington Metro. Area 
Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines presume a nexus or 
rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria listed therein and 
an applicant’s security suitability. ISCR Case No. 15-01253 at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 20, 2016). 
Once  the  Government establishes a  disqualifying  condition  by substantial 
evidence, the  burden  shifts to  the  applicant  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or mitigate  the  
facts.  Directive ¶  E3.1.15. An  applicant has  the  burden  of proving  a  mitigating  condition,  
and  the  burden  of  disproving  it never shifts  to  the  Government. See  ISCR  Case  No. 02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005).  
An applicant “has the ultimate burden  of demonstrating  that it is clearly consistent  
with the national interest to grant or continue  his security clearance.”  ISCR Case No. 01-
20700  at 3  (App. Bd. Dec.  19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance  determinations should  err, if 
they must, on the side  of denials.” Egan  at 531.   
Analysis  
Guideline  J, Criminal Conduct  
The concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 30: “Criminal activity creates 
doubt about a person's judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness. By its very nature, it 
calls into question a person's ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and 
regulations.” Applicant’s admissions and the evidence in the FORM establish the 
following disqualifying condition under this guideline: 
AG ¶  31(b): evidence (including, but not limited to, a credible  allegation, an  
admission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of  
whether the individual was formally charged,  prosecuted, or convicted.  
The following  mitigating conditions are potentially relevant:  
AG ¶  32(a): so  much  time  has elapsed  since  the  criminal behavior  
happened, or it happened  under such  unusual circumstances, that it is 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
unlikely to  recur and  does  not  cast  doubt on  the  individual's reliability,  
trustworthiness, or good judgment;  and  
AG ¶  32(d): there is evidence  of  successful rehabilitation; including, but not  
limited  to,  the  passage  of time  without  recurrence  of  criminal  activity, 
restitution, compliance  with  the  terms of parole  or probation, job  training  or 
higher education, good  employment record,  or constructive  community  
involvement.  
Neither mitigating  condition  is established. Although  Applicant’s last  arrest and  
conviction  was in April 2014, he  has admitted  that he  continues to  drink heavily and  drive  
while intoxicated.  
Guideline G, Alcohol Consumption  
The  concern under this guideline  is set out in AG ¶  21:  “Excessive alcohol 
consumption  often  leads to  the  exercise  of  questionable  judgment  or  the  failure to  control  
impulses, and can raise questions about an individual's reliability and trustworthiness.”  
Applicant’s admissions and the evidence in the FORM establish the following 
disqualifying conditions under this guideline:  
AG ¶  22(a):  alcohol-related  incidents  away from  work, such  as  driving  while  
under the  influence, fighting, child  or spouse  abuse, disturbing  the  peace,  
or other incidents of  concern, regardless of the  frequency of the  individual's 
alcohol use  or whether  the  individual has been  diagnosed  with  alcohol use  
disorder;  and  
AG ¶  22(c): habitual or binge  consumption  of alcohol to  the  point of impaired  
judgment,  regardless of whether the  individual is diagnosed  with  alcohol  
use disorder.  
The following mitigating conditions are potentially applicable: 
AG ¶  23(a): so much  time  has passed, or the  behavior was so  infrequent,  or  
it happened  under such  unusual circumstances that  it is  unlikely  to  recur or  
does not cast doubt on  the  individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or  
judgment;   
AG ¶  23(b): the  individual acknowledges his or her pattern of maladaptive  
alcohol use, provides evidence  of  actions taken  to  overcome  this problem,  
and  has demonstrated  a  clear and  established  pattern  of modified  
consumption  or abstinence in accordance with treatment recommendations;  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
         
  
 
  
     
      
     
       
     
  
 
 
 
    
    
     
       
 
 
   
 
 
 
       
          
AG ¶  23(c): the  individual is  participating  in counseling  or  a  treatment  
program, has no  previous history of treatment and  relapse, and  is  making  
satisfactory progress in a treatment program; and  
AG ¶  23(d): the  individual has successfully completed  a  treatment program  
along  with  any required  aftercare and  has demonstrated  a  clear and  
established  pattern of  modified  consumption  or abstinence  in accordance  
with treatment recommendations.  
None of these mitigating conditions are established. Applicant continues to drink 
heavily. He has not sought or received counseling or treatment. 
Guideline E, Personal Conduct  
The security concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to 
cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes. . . . 
Applicant’s admissions and  the  evidence  in  the  FORM  establish  the  following  
disqualifying condition  under this guideline:  
AG ¶ 16(a): d eliberate omission, concealment, or falsification of relevant 
facts from any personnel security questionnaire, personal history statement, 
or similar form used to conduct investigations, determine employment 
qualifications, award benefits or status, determine national security eligibility 
or trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities. 
The following mitigating conditions are relevant: 
AG ¶  17(a): the  individual made  prompt,  good-faith  efforts  to  correct the  
omission, concealment,  or falsification  before  being  confronted  with  the  
facts;  and  
AG ¶  17(c):  the  offense  is so  minor, or so  much  time  has passed, or the  
behavior is so infrequent,  or it happened under such unique circumstances  
that it  is unlikely to  recur and  does not cast doubt on  the  individual's  
reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment.  
Neither mitigating condition is established. Applicant submitted no evidence of 
efforts to correct the omissions from his SCA. Falsification of an SCA is not a minor 
6 
 
 
 
         
 
 
 
       
       
          
        
       
      
 
 
 
         
          
            
           
         
               
       
  
 
 
     
 
   
 
       
 
  
 
      
 
  
 
       
offense, because it “strikes at the heart of the security clearance process.” ISCR Case 
No. 09-01652 (App. Bd. Aug. 8, 2011.). 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole -person concept. In applying the whole -
person concept, an administrative j udge must evaluate an applicant’s eligibility for a 
security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct and all relevant 
circumstances. An a dministrative judge should consider the nine adjudicative pr ocess 
factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  
and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct;  
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.   
I have incorporated my comments under Guideline J, G, and E in my whole-person 
analysis and applied the adjudicative factors in AG ¶ 2(d). Because Applicant requested 
a determination on the record without a hearing, I had no opportunity to evaluate his 
credibility and sincerity based on demeanor. See ISCR Case No. 01-12350 at 3-4 (App. 
Bd. Jul. 23, 2003). After weighing the disqualifying and mitigating conditions under 
Guidelines J, G, and E and evaluating all the evidence in the context of the whole person, 
I conclude Applicant has not mitigated the security concerns raised by his criminal 
conduct, alcohol consumption, and personal conduct. 
Formal Findings  
I make the following formal findings on the allegations in the SOR: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline J (Criminal Conduct):  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.e:  Against Applicant 
Paragraph  2, Guideline G (Alcohol Consumption)  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 2.a-2.c:  Against Applicant 
Paragraph  3, Guideline E (Personal Conduct):   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  3.a:  Against Applicant 
7 
 
 
 
 
       
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion  
I conclude that it is not clearly consistent with the national security interests of the 
United States to grant Applicant eligibility for access to classified information. Clearance 
is denied. 
LeRoy F. Foreman 
Administrative Judge 
8 