 
 
  
 
  
        
         
           
             
 
 
  
  
                  
   
   
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
     
 
  
   
  
     
  
  
    
    
     
     
  
  
 
  
  
___________ 
___________ 
DEPA
RTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance  
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 24-00844 
Appearances  
For Government: Mark D. Lawton, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
09/05/2025 
Decision 
HARVEY, Mark, Administrative Judge: 
Security concerns arising under Guidelines J (criminal conduct) and E (personal 
conduct) are mitigated; however, security concerns under Guideline I (psychological 
conditions) are not mitigated. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On February 20, 2015, and March 31, 2022 , Applicant completed and signed 
Electronic Questionnaires for Investigations Processing (e- QIP) or security clearance 
applications (SCAs). (Government Exhibit (GE) 1 ; GE 2 ) On August 26, 2024, the 
Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) issued a statement of reasons 
(SOR) to Applicant under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified 
Information within Industry, February 20, 1960; Department of Defense ( DOD) Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (Directive), 
January 2, 1992; and Security Executive Agent Directive 4, establishing in Appendix A 
the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to 
Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AGs), effective June 8, 
2017. (Hearing Exhibit (HE) 2) 
The SOR detailed reasons why the DCSA did not find under the Directive that it is 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant or continue a security 
 
 
 
        
    
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
    
     
   
     
   
 
     
    
    
      
clearance for Applicant and recommended referral to an administrative judge to  
determine whether a clearance should be granted, continued,  denied, or revoked.  
Specifically, the SOR set  forth security concerns arising  under Guidelines  E, I, a nd  J. (HE  
2) On August 28,  2024, Applicant  provided a response to t he SOR  and requested a  
hearing. (HE 3) On December 26,  2024, Department Counsel was ready  to proceed.    
On May 27, 2025, the case was assigned to me. On June 4, 2025, the Defense 
Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a notice s cheduling the hearing for July 
3, 2025. (HE 1) The hearing was held as scheduled. 
Department Counsel offered nine  exhibits into evidence  and requested 
administrative notice of  pages  87-122 from the Diagnostic  and Statistical  Manual of  
Mental Disorders  (Fifth Edition) ( DSM-5);  Applicant  did not  offer  any  exhibits  into 
evidence; there were no objections;  and  I admitted the proffered  exhibits into evidence.  
(Transcript (Tr.)  16-19; GE 1-GE  9; HE  4) I  also took  administrative notice of pages  87-
122 of  DSM-5. (HE 4) On  July 14, 2025, DOHA received a transcript of the hearing.  No  
post-hearing documents were received.    
Some details were excluded to protect Applicant’s right to privacy. Specific 
information is available in the cited exhibits and transcript. 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s  SOR response,  he admitted the SOR allegations in ¶¶  2.a,  3.c, and  
3.e. (HE  3) He de nied the SOR  allegations  in ¶¶  1.a, 1.b,  1.c, 3.a, 3.b,  and 3.d.  He also 
provided clarifying,  and mitigating information.  His admissions are accepted as findings  
of fact. Additional findings follow.    
Applicant is a 47-year-old access control  and patrol armed security  officer. (Tr.  7, 
9) In 1995, he graduated from high school. (Tr. 7) He has about 35 college credits. (Tr.  
7) He has not served in the military. (Tr. 7) He  has never  married. (Tr. 7) His two sons are  
ages  10 and 26. (Tr. 8)  He has worked for  his  current employer for about 42 months. (Tr.  
9) Applicant said the absence of a security clearance has delayed his  employer’s  
promotion  of him at  work. (Tr. 49) He has 20 years of  experience in security. (Tr. 9)   
Psychological Conditions  
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges around “June 2020, [Applicant’s] family member filed a petition 
for an emergency mental health evaluation due to [his] behavior that included delusions, 
false beliefs, aggressive talking, mood swings, unwarranted suspicion, irrational thoughts, 
and [his] belief that [he] had special powers.” Applicant’s mother filed the petition for an 
emergency mental health evaluation. (Tr. 24; GE 4) 
Paragraph 9 of Applicant’s mother’s petition for an emergency mental health 
evaluation asserts Applicant has “ delusions, false beliefs, aggressive talking, mood 
swings, unwarranted suspicion, says he has special powers, irrational thoughts.” (Tr. 24; 
GE 4) Applicant disagreed with his mother’s description of his beliefs. (Tr. 25) In July of 
2 
 
 
     
     
   
 
      
  
      
       
  
  
 
    
  
   
   
   
    
  
 
    
  
     
  
    
 
   
   
      
   
 
   
    
    
  
 
 
 
  
     
 
2020, he was hospitalized for mental-health treatment for depression for seven days. (Tr. 
29; GE 5 at 1) Applicant said in June of 2020 he was in a “very, very sad state of mind” 
because he was unable to see his son. (Tr. 30) 
SOR ¶ 1.b alleges around August 2021, Applicant was involuntarily hospitalized 
for mental-health treatment. He was “reported to be delusional, paranoid and responding 
to internal stimuli. [He] threw away [his] belongings and gave away [his] automobile to a 
stranger. [He was] diagnosed with Schizophrenia. [He] refused medications.” His mother 
filed the 2021 petition for an emergency evaluation alleging the facts in SOR ¶ 1.b. (Tr. 
25-26; GE 4 at 5-7 and ¶ 9) 
Applicant said he received about $1,200 from his mother to help him purchase a 
car. (Tr. 26) He went to a gas station, and he was witnessing to people, that is, sharing 
the word of God with them. (Tr. 27-28) He said he left the car key on the seat of the car, 
and the car was stolen. (Tr. 28) An August 18, 2021, mental-health note indicates 
Applicant “admitted to giving [his] car to a stranger because [he] wanted to help because 
the individual needed a ride.” (Tr. 32) He told a woman at a bus stop that if it was beneficial 
to her and some others at the bus stop, they could have the car. (Tr. 32) He said: 
It doesn’t mean I gave the car away. It’s just at the time I looked at it from a 
different perspective. Instead of looking at it as, something that was taken 
from me, I looked at it that maybe, you know, God saw fit that it would be 
beneficial to them, but I knew at some point that I would see it again, like 
my father told me. (Tr. 32-33) 
Applicant’s mother was upset about the loss of the vehicle. (Tr. 26 -27) Applicant 
was upset about a custody dispute concerning his son; he said he turned his life to Christ; 
and he considered matters such as a vehicle to be superficial. (Tr. 27) At that time, h e 
was unemployed, drinking alcohol, and smoking marijuana. (Tr. 27) 
Applicant’s next-door neighbor had young children, and Applicant believed his 
laptop computer would be beneficial to the children. (Tr. 27) Also, he wanted to cut the 
neighbor’s grass. (Tr. 27) He put his television, a laptop computer, and a mattress on his 
front porch and invited his neighbor, who was a minister and mentor to Applicant, to take 
the items on his porch. (Tr. 31) He did some sinful things on the mattress, and he did not 
want his son to sleep on it. (Tr. 31-32) 
In August 2021, Applicant was involuntarily admitted for inpatient mental -health 
treatment for about nine days. (Tr. 28) An August 18, 2021 medical note states: 
[Applicant] was brought in by court order petition by  mom due to [his] manic  
and bizarre behavior. [He] is extremely delusional, paranoid and loud in the  
ER. [He] bursts out crying because what the police and ER doctors and  
nurses [are] doing to him is demonic. [He] said the whole world is demonic.  
[Patient]  per court order has  a [history] of  bipolar and depression.  . . . [He] 
said by the way he is “allergic to sinners and  uncompassionate people like  
us.” . . . . [He ] is noncompliant with [medications]. [ He] said he takes no  
3 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
     
  
 
    
  
  
    
   
 
     
        
 
 
      
   
   
  
 
[medications]  because the [B]ible and herbs [are] all we need. [He] rambles  
on and said Dr. Faucci  done mess up the whole world with this vaccination,  
and [patient] needs to save people.  [He]  is confuse[d], his speech is  
disorganized and nonsensical. [ He]  denies any other medical  condition,  
screams  at this  assessor that  he is fine and looks fine. . . . [ He] says he is  
eating and sleeping and he does  not take drugs. The petition says he is not  
eating and that  he is  on drugs. .  . . (GE 5 at 2)         
Applicant said that he projects or speaks his thoughts or talks to himself. (Tr. 29) 
He denied that he refused to take prescribed medications. (Tr. 31) His diagnosis on 
discharge from his inpatient mental -health treatment was schizophrenia, and he was 
prescribed “benztropine, olanzapine, and risperidone.” (Tr. 33; GE 5 at 3 ) He refused to 
take the medications and stated, “man does not have a solution for godly problems, only 
God does.” (Tr. 33-34) 
In his March 31, 2022 SCA, Applicant disclosed his inpatient treatment in August 
2021, and he said, “My mother assumed something was wrong with me. When I decided 
to give my t.v. and laptop and mattress away as I didn’t want anything from past negative 
behavior around me or my son. . . . The doctor’s ruled there was nothing wrong with 
me [and] gave me a clean bill of health. ” (GE 1 at 26 (emphasis added)) In response 
to the question, “Have you EVER been diagnosed by a physician or other health 
professional (for example, a psychiatrist, psychologist, licensed clinical social worker, or 
nurse practitioner) with . . . schizophrenia . . . or bipolar . . . ?” he answered, “No.” (GE 1 
at 27) 
SOR ¶ 1.c alleges around February 2024, Dr. G, a licensed psychologist , 
evaluated Applicant . The psychologist based his opinion “on background information, 
clinical interview and observations, and [an] objective personality assessment.” Dr. G’s 
report said: 
CONCLUSIONS AND DIAGNOSTIC IMPRESSION: Results of the  clinical 
interview and ps ychological assessment reflect concerns related to  
[Applicant’s]  insight and awareness regarding  his mental  health history  and  
occupational problems.  [He] stated that he had no issues with  his 
employment prior to the termination  [in 2020]. However, when we reviewed  
his entire occupational history, to include the reasons for leaving each  
position, it is evident  he has  a longstanding pattern of performance and  
interpersonal problems leading to challenges  maintaining employment.  
Additionally,  he was  not open or insightful regarding his  mental health  
symptoms, diagnoses or treatment history. He is not  endorsing  current  
symptoms; however, he  is also not considered a reliable or insightful  
informant. His  hospital admission records reported a  prior diagnosis of  
Bipolar Disorder and medication non- adherence. His mother was so  
concerned for his safety and behavior on two occurrences, she had an  
emergency order  of  protection to have him involuntarily hospitalized.  . . . His  
behavior at the t ime of  his second admission was concerning due to “erratic,  
irrational and agitated” behavior  which he blames  on the medications  
4 
 
 
   
   
  
   
   
   
    
 
 
   
     
   
 
  
   
    
    
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
    
  
   
  
 
 
   
    
  
    
 
administered to him by the hospital. The second hospitalization in August 
2021 listed “Schizophrenia; with severe symptoms” as his discharge 
diagnosis. He does not agree he has Bipolar Disorder or Schizophrenia, 
and has never been compliant with medication/psychiatric 
recommendations. During the interview, he was also observed to be talking 
to himself during both breaks taken during the evaluation, which could either 
be due to anxiety or more concerningly, possibly responding to internal 
stimuli. 
While it is positive that [Applicant] has not been re-hospitalized since 2021, 
there is not enough data to substantiate that his functioning is stable, 
outside of his mother’s report. It is also favorable that his supervisor of one 
year provided a favorable opinion; however, it is unclear how closely this 
individual works with [Applicant] on a daily basis. Due to various concerns 
related to his lack of insight, lack of willingness to recognize mental health 
symptoms and participate in mental health treatment should he need it, 
history of poor judgement and reliability, and his challenging occupational 
history (with lack of insight regarding the circumstances leading to his 
recurrent terminations), he has more risk factors than protective factors 
which were identified. 
SUMMARY AND PROGNOSIS : Results of this assessment suggest  
concern for a psychiatric  disorder.  Applicant’s  prior diagnosis from 2021          
. . .  stated Schizophrenia as  his  diagnosis, and prescribed two antipsychotic  
medications, with which he has never been adherent.  He noted, “man does  
not  have a solution to  Godly  problems.” This is concerning from  a  judgment,  
safety  and reliability perspective.  As such, it is the undersigned evaluator’s  
opinion  that [his]  judgement, reliability,  and trustworthiness are not  
reasonably intact. In sum,  there is  an indication that  his current   
psychological condition impairs his judgment, reliability,  trustworthiness, or  
his ability to safeguard classified or sensitive information.  (GE 6  at 6-7)  
As indicated previously, Applicant told Dr. G about preaching to homeless people 
and about the female taking his car. (Tr. 35- 36) He believed the court decision to permit 
him to have unsupervised custody of his son was an indication that there was no safet y 
risk to his son. (Tr. 36) Moreover, there were no safety or security-related incidents during 
his employment for 20 years. (Tr. 37) He has not received any mental -health treatment 
since Dr. G’s evaluation. (Tr. 37) He is not taking any prescribed mental -health 
medications. (Tr. 37) 
Criminal Conduct  
SOR ¶ 1.b alleges around “July 2020, a petition for a peace order was filed against 
[Applicant] for entering a neighbor’s property, breaking a yard statue, and front door, and 
pushing over a motorcycle located on the property. This petition was dismissed due to 
lack of service.” Applicant admitted that he received this peace order. (Tr. 37-38) 
5 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
     
     
    
   
    
     
  
  
 
   
   
    
  
   
   
    
 
   
 
Applicant smoked marijuana “pretty regularly” for about three months before the 
July 2020 incident. (Tr. 46-47) He most recently used marijuana in August 2020. (Tr. 47) 
Applicant said he was  “in a very sad state of  mind” because he was unable to see  
his son during the COVID 19 pandemic, and he  decided to be productive and mow  his  
neighbor’s yards with his lawn mower. (Tr. 38) He knocked over  a yard statute and  
motorcycle  with  his mower  because the area was compact, and it was difficult to turn the  
push mower. (Tr. 39-42) He went to the front  storm  door and knocked because he wanted  
to disclose what he had accidentally done. (Tr. 39, 41 ) The storm was cracked,  and his  
knocking damaged it further. (Tr. 41) No one answered the door.  (Tr. 39) He said his  
intentions were “pure.” (Tr. 39) He was willing to pay compensation for the damage. (Tr.  
40) He did not  personally know the neighbor. (Tr. 40) However,  they  had been neighbors  
for about  a year. (Tr. 41)  
According to his neighbor’s petition, Applicant  entered and broke the yard statue,   
and then about “three  and a half hours later  [he]  returned and hit the front door with an   
enormous cement tile  and broke both the door and the windows on the door.” (Tr.  43; GE  
7) Applicant said he went  home,  drank some alcohol,  and smoked marijuana. (Tr. 43-45)  
He said he was upset and threw a rock  at the door. (Tr. 43) He disagreed with the  
statement that said he came back to the neighbor’s residence the next morning and  
pushed over the motorcycle. (Tr. 43) Applicant said he threw the rock at the door because  
the neighbor was sitting on the porch earlier in the day  and had “a bad look  on his face.”  
(Tr. 44) He was frustrated because the neighbor  did not answer the door whe n he 
knocked. (Tr. 44)   
Personal Conduct  
SOR ¶ 3.a alleges around January 2020, Applicant’s employer terminated his 
employment. In his March 31, 2022 SCA, Applicant disclosed that his employer laid him 
off and put him on leave without pay. (Tr. 52; GE 1 at 12) In his SOR response, he denied 
that he was terminated from this employment; however, he said he was “wrongfully 
discharged . . . due to falsified statements given by a senior employee.” (Tr. 53) He said 
he was moved to a different work location; however, he was never terminated. (Tr. 53) 
He talked to another employee about biblical matters, and she was uncomfortable with 
his comments. (Tr. 55) 
SOR ¶ 3.b alleges around March 2017, Applicant’s employer terminated his 
employment because of multiple instances of aggressive and intimidating comments and 
gestures to government employees and others . He was not recommended for rehire. In 
his March 31, 2022 SCA, Applicant disclosed his employer terminated him for 
“unspecified reasons.” (GE 1 at 15) In his SOR response, he denied SOR ¶ 3.b; however, 
he explained his termination was the result of falsified statements by a former coworker 
and friend. (Tr. 57) He received a letter , which stated he violated “standards of conduct 
as a result of threatening, intimidating, coercing, using abusive or vulgar language, or 
interfering with the performance of other employees.” (Tr. 58-59; AE 8) 
6 
 
 
     
     
 
 
   
      
  
      
    
  
 
    
 
 
 
     
 
  
  
 
   
 
     
     
    
 
 
   
 
 
   
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
SOR ¶ 3.c alleges around July 2012, Applicant’s employer terminated his 
employment for tardiness. Applicant admitted that he was terminated by this employer for 
two incidents of tardiness. (Tr. 60-61) 
SOR ¶ 3.d alleges around July 2009, Applicant’s employer terminated his 
employment for use of a telephone on duty. In Applicant’s February 2015 SCA, and during 
his follow-up Office of Personnel Management (OPM) interview, he said he was fired for 
use of a government phone for a personal call . (Tr. 61 -62; GE 2; GE 3 at 5) Applicant 
objected to his employer’s failure to provide evidence that he used a government 
telephone for a personal call and because a supervisor threatened him . (Tr. 62 -63) He 
suggested he was terminated possibly due to “a vendetta about that or what, because I 
had actually beat a previous accusation to where, ironically, like, I was threatened on 
camera by a supervisor who was armed at the time to where I was terminated and the 
company brought me back.” 
SOR ¶ 3.e cross alleges the same information in SOR ¶ 2.a, supra. 
Applicant’s March 31, 2022 SCA asks “In the last seven (7) years, have you 
illegally used any drugs or controlled substances?” and he answered, “No” even though 
he used marijuana two years before he completed this SCA. (Tr. 51) He explained he 
may have been rushing to complete his SCA. (Tr. 51) He denied that he used marijuana 
after August 2020. (Tr. 52) Department Counsel moved to amend the SOR to add an 
allegation of false statement on this SCA ; Applicant objected; and I denied the motion. 
(Tr. 68-69) His inaccurate statement in his SCA about his history of illegal drug use will 
be considered in the credibility assessment and under the whole-person concept. (Tr. 69) 
Character Evidence  
Applicant said he is very serious about his employment and duties. (Tr. 65) His 
most recent incident was in 2021. (Tr. 65) He said he has not had any incidents at his 
current employment, and he received excellent performance evaluations. (Tr. 65) He 
disagreed with the diagnosis of schizophrenia because it should have been apparent 
when he was a child. (Tr. 65-66) 
Dr. G interviewed Applicant’s supervisor. At the time of the interview, his supervisor 
advised Dr. G that he had known Applicant for about one year. Dr. G said Applicant’s 
supervisor described Applicant as follows: 
[Applicant] is “outstanding and trained new officers on how to run the post.” 
He identified him as being “stable and willing to help others.” He denied any 
issues or concerns related to his interpersonal functioning or performance. 
He reported that he has demonstrated reliability and good judgement in the 
past year. His supervisor had no other concerns. (GE 6 at 3) 
7 
 
 
 
  
 
   
     
   
    
   
 
     
     
 
 
  
  
   
    
 
   
 
  
 
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
     
    
Policies  
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion of the Executive 
Branch in regulating access to information pertaining to national security emphasizing, 
“no one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 
518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to “ control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual 
is sufficiently trustworthy” to have access to such information. Id. at 527. Th e President 
has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants eligibility for 
access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly consistent with the 
national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation 
about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Clearance 
decisions must be “in terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a 
determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 § 7. 
Thus, this decision should not be construed to suggest that it is based on any express or 
implied determination about applicant’s allegiance, loyalty, or patriotism. It is merely an 
indication the applicant has not met the strict guidelines the President, Secretary of 
Defense, and Director of National Intelligence have established for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 95 -0611 at 2 
(App. Bd. May 2, 1996). 
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition by substantial 
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
  
    
  
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
      
  
 
      
  
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant  or continue his [or  her] security  
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01- 20700 at  3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). The burden of  
disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the Government.  See  ISCR Case No. 02-
31154 at  5 (App. Bd.  Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  Egan, 484 U.S. at 531;  see  AG  ¶ 2(b).   
Analysis  
Psychological Conditions  
AG ¶ 27 articulates the security concern for psychological conditions: 
Certain emotional, mental, and personality conditions can impair judgment, 
reliability, or trustworthiness. A formal diagnosis of a disorder is not required 
for there to be a concern under this guideline. A duly qualified mental health 
professional (e.g., clinical psychologist or psychiatrist) employed by, or 
acceptable to and approved by the U.S. Government, should be consulted 
when evaluating potentially disqualifying and mitigating information under 
this guideline and an opinion, including prognosis, should be sought. No 
negative inference concerning the standards in this guideline may be raised 
solely on the basis of mental health counseling. 
AG ¶ 28 provides psychological conditions that could raise a security concern and 
may be disqualifying in this case: 
(a) behavior that casts  doubt  on
  an individual’s judgment, stability, reliability,  
or trustworthiness,  not covered under any other guideline and that may  
indicate an emotional, mental,  or  personality condition, including,  but not  
limited to, irresponsible, violent, self-harm, suicidal, paranoid,  manipulative,  
impulsive, chronic lying, deceitful, exploitative, or bizarre behaviors;   
(b)  an o pinion by   a duly qualified mental health professional that  the  
individual has a condition that may impair judgment, stability, reliability, or  
trustworthiness;   
(c) voluntary or involuntary inpatient hospitalization; and  
(d) failure to follow a prescribed treatment plan related to a diagnosed  
psy
chological/psychiatric condition that  may impair judgment, stability,  
reliability, or trustworthiness, including, but  not limited to, failure to take  
prescribed medication or failure to attend required counseling sessions.  
The rec
ord establishes AG ¶¶ 28(a), 28(b), 28(c), and 28(d). Further details will be 
discussed in the mitigation analysis, infra. 
AG ¶ 29 lists psychological conditions mitigating conditions which are potentially 
applicable: 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
   
   
 
 
    
 
    
  
 
  
    
    
  
      
 
   
 
      
(a) the  identified condition is readily controllable with treatment, and the  
i
ndividual has demonstrated ongoing and consistent compliance with the  
treatment plan;  
(b) the individual has voluntarily entered a counseling or treatment program  
for
 a condition that is amenable to treatment, and the individual is currently  
receiving counseling or treatment with a favorable prognosis by  a duly  
qualified mental health professional;  
(c) recent opinion by  a dul y qualified mental  health professional  employed  
by,  or acceptable to  and approved by,  the U.S. Government  that an  
individual’s previous condition is under control or in remission, and has a  
low probability of recurrence or  exacerbation;  
(d) the past psychological/psychiatric condition was temporary,  the  situation  
has been resolved, and the individual no longer shows indications of  
emotional instability; and  
(e) there is  no in dication of  a current problem.  
In IS
CR Case No. 10- 04641 at 4 (App. Bd. Sept. 24, 2013), the DOHA Appeal 
Board concisely explained Applicant’s responsibility for proving the applicability of 
mitigating conditions as follows: 
Once a concern arises regarding an Applicant’s security clearance 
eligibility, there is a strong presumption against the grant or maintenance of 
a security clearance. See Dorfmont v. Brown, 913 F. 2d 1399, 1401 (9th 
Cir. 1990), cert. denied, 499 U.S. 905 (1991). After the Government 
presents evidence raising security concerns, the burden shifts to the 
applicant to rebut or mitigate those concerns. See Directive ¶ E3.1.15. The 
standard applicable in security clearance decisions is that articulated in 
Egan, supra. “Any doubt concerning personnel being considered for access 
to classified information will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Directive, Enclosure 2, [App. A] ¶ 2(b). 
In June 2020 and August 2021, Applicant was an inpatient for mental -health 
treatment. He was reported to be delusional, paranoid and responding to internal stimuli. 
He engaged in bizarre behaviors such as giving his vehicle to a stranger and his laptop 
computer and television to a neighbor. He damaged a statue in a neighbor’s yard, and he 
threw a rock against his neighbor’s door because the neighbor had a bad look on his face. 
He behaved in a bizarre manner at the emergency room in August 2021. He screamed 
at the medical assessor and expressed concerns about demons. He was noncompliant 
with medical recommendations that he take prescribed medications. Dr. G indicated 
Applicant’s “judgement, reliability, and trustworthiness are not reasonably intact. In sum, 
there is an indication that his current psychological condition impairs his judgment, 
reliability, trustworthiness, or his ability to safeguard classified or sensitive informati on.” 
(GE 6 at 7) These facts are sufficient to establish AG ¶¶ 28(a), 28(b), 28(c), and 28(d). 
10 
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
   
 
   
    
     
 
  
    
    
  
 
 
  
     
   
  
    
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
None of the mitigating conditions apply. Applicant is unlikely to voluntarily seek 
mental-health treatment and to comply with treatment recommendations. Dr. G said: 
Due to various concerns related to his lack of insight, lack of willingness to 
recognize mental health symptoms and participate in mental health 
treatment should he need it, history of poor judgement and reliability, and 
his challenging occupational history (with lack of insight regarding the 
circumstances leading to his recurrent terminations), he has more risk 
factors than protective factors which were identified. (GE 6 at 7) 
Applicant did not provide accurate information in his March 31, 2022 SCA. As to 
his August 2021, inpatient mental-health treatment, he said, “The doctor’s ruled there was 
nothing wrong with me [and] gave me a clean bill of health.” The doctor diagnosed him 
with schizophrenia and prescribed medications for him. He also falsely denied that he 
used marijuana in the previous seven years. These issues were not alleged in the SOR. 
In ISCR Case No. 03 -20327 at 4 (App. Bd. Oct. 26, 2006), the Appeal Board listed fi ve 
circumstances in which conduct not alleged in an SOR may be considered stating: 
(a) to assess an applicant’s credibility; (b) to evaluate an applicant’s  
evidence of  extenuation,  mitigation, or changed circumstances; (c) to  
consider whether an applicant has  demonstrated successful rehabilitation;   
(d) to decide whether a particular provision of the Adjudicative Guidelines is  
applicable; or (e) to provide evidence for whole person analysis under  
Directive Section 6.3.   
Id. (citing ISCR Case  No. 02-07218 at 3 (App. Bd. Mar. 15, 2004); ISCR Case No. 00-
0633 at 3 (App.  Bd. Oct. 24,  2003)).  See also  ISCR Case No.  12-09719 at 3 (App.  Bd.  
Apr. 6, 2016) (citing ISCR Case No.  14-00151 at 3, n. 1 (App. Bd. Sept. 12, 2014); ISCR  
Case No. 03- 20327 at 4 (App. Bd. Oct.  26,  2006)). These non- SOR allegations ( false  
information o n his SCA)  will be considered in the credibility assessment  and  under the  
whole-person concept.  They will not be considered for disqualification purposes.  
Applicant is not currently receiving mental-health treatment. There is no favorable 
prognosis. There is no statement from a mental-health professional indicating an absence 
of a current problem or that his mental -health issues are in remission. Applicant has not 
accepted that he has a mental -health issue. Based on all the facts and circumstances, 
especially Dr. G’s report, the mental-health treatment records, and his behavior with his 
neighbor, the mental, psychological conditions security concerns are not mitigated. 
Criminal Conduct  
AG ¶ 30 describes the security concern about criminal conduct, “Criminal activity 
creates doubt about a person’s judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness. By its very 
nature, it calls into question a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations.” 
11 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
   
  
   
    
  
 
 
   
 
  
  
    
    
 
 
AG ¶ 31 describes one criminal conduct condition that could raise a security 
concern and may be disqualifying in this case: 
(b) evidence (including, but not limited to, a credible allegation, an 
admission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of  
whether the individual  was formally charged,  prosecuted, or convicted.  
The record evidence establishes AG ¶ 31(b). Further details will be discussed in 
the mitigation analysis, infra. 
AG ¶ 32 lists conditions that could mitigate criminal conduct security concerns: 
(a) so much time has  elaps
 ed since the criminal behavior happened, or it  
happened under such unusual circumstances, that it is unlikely to recur and  
does not cast doubt on the individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, or good  
judgment;  
(b) the individual was pressured or coerced into committing the act and  
thos
e pressures are no longer present in the person’s life;  
(c) no reliable evidence to support that the individual committed the offense;  
and  
(d) there is evidence of successful rehabilitation; including, but not limited  
to,
 the passage of time without recurrence of criminal activity, restitution,  
compliance with the terms of parole or  probation, job training or higher  
education, good employment  record,  or constructive community  
involvement.  
In abou
t July 2020, Applicant entered a neighbor’s yard and damaged a statue. He 
believed the neighbor looked at him in a bad or unfriendly way, and he threw a rock 
through the screen and window of the neighbor’s front door. The next morning, he pushed 
over the neighbor’s motorcycle. This criminal conduct is not recent; it has not recurred; 
and it is unlikely to recur. The criminal behavior is relevant under the psychological 
conditions guideline, and it provides part of the basis to establish AG ¶ 28(a). AG ¶ 32(a) 
applies, and personal conduct security concerns are mitigated.  
Personal Conduct  
AG ¶ 15 explains why personal conduct is a security concern stating: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect 
classified information. Of special interest is any failure to provide truthful 
and candid answers during the security clearance process or any other 
failure to cooperate with the security clearance process. . . . 
12 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
AG ¶ 16 lists personal conduct one disqualifying condition that is potentially 
relevant in this case as follows: 
(d) credible adverse information that is not explicitly covered under any  
other  guid
eline and may not be sufficient by itself for an adverse  
determination,  but which, when combined with all available information,  
supports a whole- person assessment  of questionable judgment,  
untrustworthiness,  unreliability, lack of candor, unwillingness to comply with 
rules and regulations,  or other characteristics indicating that the individual  
may  not properly safeguard classified or sensitive information. This  
includes, but is not limited to, consideration of:  
     (1)  untrustworthy  or unr eliable behavior to include breach of client  
confidentiality, release of proprietary information,  unauthorized release of  
sensitive corporate or  government protected information;  
     (2) any disruptive, violent,  or other inappropriate behavior;  
     (3) a pattern of  dishonesty or rule violations; and  
     (4) evidence of significant misuse of Government or other  employer's  
time or  resources.  
The r
ecor
d establishes AG ¶ 16(d). Further details will be discussed in the 
mitigation analysis, infra. 
AG ¶ 17 lists p ersonal conduct mitigating conditions which are potentially 
applicable: 
(a) the individual  made pr ompt,  good-faith efforts to correct the omission,  
concealment,  or falsification before being confronted with the facts;  
(b) the refusal or failure to cooperate, omission, or concealment was caused  
or  signi
ficantly contributed to by  advice of legal counsel  or of  a person with  
professional  responsibilities for advising or instructing the individual  
specifically concerning security  processes. Upon being made aware of the  
requirement to cooperate or  provide the  information, the individual  
cooperated fully  and truthfully;  
(c) the offense is so minor, or so much time has passed, or the behavior is  
so inf
requent,  or it happened under such unique circumstances that it is  
unlikely to recur  and  does not  cast  doubt on the i ndividual’s reliability,  
trustworthiness, or  good judgment;  
(d) the individual has acknowledged the behavior and obtained counseling  
to cha
nge the be havior or taken other positive steps to alleviate the  
stressors, circumstances, or factors  that  contributed to untrustworthy,  
13 
 
 
 
 
 
     
      
     
  
 
     
  
 
    
   
  
 
   
      
       
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
    
     
   
unreliable, or  other inappropriate behavior, and such  behavior is  unlikely to  
recur;  
(e) the individual has  ta
 ken positive steps to reduce or eliminate vulnerability  
to  exploitation,  manipulation, or duress;  and  
(f) the information was unsubstantiated or from a source of questionable  
re
liability.  
Appli
cant was terminated from four employments because of his behavior or 
decisions. Three of the terminations were for minor reasons; the specific reasons did not 
recur; and the terminations are not recent. He reported that he was terminated for making 
biblical references to a coworker in 2020 (SOR ¶ 3.a), two incidents of tardiness in 2012 
(SOR ¶ 3.c), and use of a government telephone for a personal call in 2009 (SOR ¶ 3.d). 
AG ¶ 17(c) applies to these three terminations, and SOR ¶¶ 3.a, 3.c, and 3.d are 
mitigated. 
SOR ¶ 3.b alleges around March 2017, Applicant’s employer terminated his 
employment because of multiple instances of aggressive and intimidating comments and 
gestures to government employees and others. The aggressive, inappropriate comments 
and gestures in SOR ¶ 3.b are part of the basis for the psychological conditions security 
concern. Applicant’s behavior resulted from his mental-health condition. SOR ¶ 3.e cross 
alleges the same criminal conduct information in SOR ¶ 2.a. The conduct in SOR ¶¶ 3.b 
and 3.e are relevant under the psychological conditions guideline, and they provide part 
of the basis for AG ¶ 28(a). As a duplication specifically addressed under Guidelines I 
and J, the personal conduct security concern is mitigated. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all the circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), “[t]he ultimate determination” of whether to grant a security 
clearance “must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines” and the whole- person concept. My comments under Guidelines E, I, 
14 
 
 
     
    
 
 
  
  
    
 
 
     
  
   
   
  
 
  
      
     
 
  
  
      
     
 
 
    
   
  
   
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
  
and J are incorporated in my whole- person analysis. Some of the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) 
were addressed under those guidelines but some warrant additional comment. 
Applicant is a 47-year-old access control and patrol armed security officer. In 1995, 
he graduated from high school. He has about 35 college credits. He has worked for his 
current employer for about 42 months. He has 20 years of experience in security. He has 
never been accused of a security violation. His current supervisor described his work as 
outstanding. 
The disqualifying and mitigating information is discussed in the psychological 
conditions, criminal conduct, and personal conduct analysis sections, supra. The reasons 
for denial of Applicant’s access to classified information are more persuasive at this time. 
It is well settled that once a concern arises regarding an applicant’s security 
clearance eligibility, there is a strong presumption against granting a security clearance. 
See Dorfmont, 913 F. 2d at 1401. “[A] favorable clearance decision means that the record 
discloses no basis for doubt about an applicant’s eligibility for access to classified 
information.”  ISCR Case No. 18-02085 at 7 (App. Bd. Jan. 3, 2020) (citing ISCR Case 
No. 12-00270 at 3 (App. Bd. Jan. 17, 2014)). 
I have carefully applied the law, as set forth in Egan, Exec. Or. 10865, the Directive, 
the AGs, and the Appeal Board’s jurisprudence to the facts and circumstances in the 
context of the whole person. Applicant mitigated criminal conduct and personal conduct 
security concerns; however, psychological conditions security concerns are not mitigated. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,
  Guideline I:  AGAINST  APPLICANT   
Subparagraphs  1.a, 1.b, and  1.c:  Against  Applicant  
Paragraph 2, Guideline J:  FOR APPLICANT   
Subparagraph 2.a:  For  Applicant  
Paragraph 3, Guideline E:  FOR APPLICANT   
Subparagraphs  3.a  through 3.e:  For  Applicant  
15 
 
 
 
       
 
    
 
 
 
  
 
Conclusion  
Considering all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant Applicant eligibility for 
access to classified information. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Mark Harvey 
Administrative Judge 
16 