 
                                                
 
 
 
 
          
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
        
  
    
                                                                                                                                                                    
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
     
 
 
 
      
    
   
    
 
     
  
  
   
  
 
 
Oll!i~ .m~ o 
f,l :i,.. 
't, 
® 
______________ 
______________ 
               DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
     DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS  
In the 
matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
)
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 24-01402 
Appearances  
For Government: Brittany White, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
12/17/2025 
Decision 
Curry, Marc E., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to mitigate the security concerns generated by his delinquent 
debts, his longtime marijuana use, and his criminal conduct. His application for a security 
clearance is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On January 30, 202 5, the Defe nse Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
Adjudication and Vetting Services (AVS) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) to 
Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline F, financial considerations ; 
Guideline H, drug involvement; and Guideline J, criminal conduct, explaining why it was 
unable to find it clearly consistent with the national security to grant security clearance 
eligibility. The AVS took the action under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of 
Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance 
Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the National 
Adjudicative Guidelines (AG) effective for any adjudication made on or after June 8, 2017. 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
    
    
     
   
   
   
 
  
     
 
  
   
   
        
 
    
    
  
 
 
 
     
   
 
      
    
     
   
      
     
   
    
Applicant answered the SOR on February 11, 2025, admitting all the allegations. 
He requested a hearing, and the case was assigned to me on April 11, 2025. On April 24, 
2025, t he De fense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a notice of video 
teleconference hearing scheduling the case for May 8, 2025. At the hearing, I received 
nine government exhibits, marked as Government Exhibit (GE) 1 through GE 9, and I 
considered the testimony of Applicant. The transcript was received on May 12, 2025. My 
decision was delayed by the furloughing of administrative judges during the government 
shut down due to lapse in federal funding 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 32- year-old married man with one child, age 10. He has been 
separated from his wife for several years. He graduated from high school in 2010 and 
enlisted in the U. S. Marines, where he served from 2011 to 2015. He was discharged 
honorably. (Tr. 13-15) He has a GED and has taken some cybersecurity courses. (Tr. 48) 
He has been working for his current employer, a defense contractor, for approximately 
two years. (Tr. 14) He is trained as a sheet metal handyman. (GE 2 at 11) 
Applicant incurred approximately $27,000 of delinquent debt, as alleged in the 
SOR, including $7,506 of delinquent child support payments (1.a), and a $9,658 
deficiency on a repossessed car, as alleged in subparagraph 1.g. 
Applicant  provided evidence that  he has been paying the child support arrears  
through a wage garnishment  since June 2024  in the amount  of  $466 monthly. (Answer at  
3 through 6)  He contends that he negotiated a reduction in the debt set forth in  
subparagraph 1.b, a phone bill, totaling $1,510, reducing it to $986, to b  e paid in two 
monthly increments, (Tr. 25) He provided no substantiating documentation.  He has taken  
no steps to satisfy the debts alleged in subparagraphs  1.c through 1.h,  and he provided  
no proof that he is paying subparagraph 1.g through a garnishment, as he contends. (Tr.  
31)  Lastly,  he testified that he does  not recognize the debt set forth in subparagraph  1.h. 
totaling $5,643, but he provided no evidence that  he has formally disputed it  or taken 
steps to identify it.   
Applicant attributes his debt to immaturity, irresponsibility, and disorganization. (Tr. 
16-17) He characterized the incurrence of the debt as “all [his] fault.” (Tr. 17) 
Applicant smoked marijuana from 2009 to October 2023. (Tr. 40) When he started, 
he was in high school. After graduating and enlisting in the Marines in 2011, he stopped. 
(Tr. 40) He resumed use after leaving the Marines in 2015 and continued smoking to 
2023, smoking it approximately two to three days per week. (Tr. 40, 42) From 2015 to 
2017 he used marijuana while holding a sensitive position. (GE 2 at 5; Answer at 2) He 
used it to help him sleep. (GE 2 at 10) From 2015 to 2021, he purchased and used it in a 
state where it was illegal. (Tr. 42) When his state legalized it, Applicant began purchasing 
it from a dispensary. (Tr. 42) He stopped using it after his investigative interview when the 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
    
   
      
     
   
 
 
      
    
      
     
   
 
   
 
    
    
 
      
    
     
  
   
   
   
 
agent told him it was still illegal at the federal level. (Tr. 43) Applicant has not smoked 
marijuana for approximately two years. 
In June 2017, Applicant was arrested and charged with possession w ith intent to 
distribute marijuana greater than one half ounce to five pounds and carrying a concealed 
weapon. The charges stemmed from an episode when the police pulled over his car 
because a license plate light was out, and the police officer noticed the smell of marijuana 
(GE 2 at 11) An ensuing search revealed marijuana and a handgun on the floor of the 
backseat. 
Applicant’s girlfriend was driving his car and Applicant , together with an other 
passenger were in the car. Applicant contends that the marijuana was not his, but he 
claimed it because he did not want his girlfriend to get in trouble. (Tr. 45 - 46; GE 2 at 11). 
Subsequently, the marijuana charge was never prosecuted, and Applicant was not 
charged with a gun violation because he legally owned it. (Tr. 47) 
Between 2021 and 2022, A pplicant was charged four times for failure to appear 
and once for contempt of court, related to various traffic-related misdemeanors. (Answer 
at 3) After his charge in the Spring of 2022, as alleged in subparagraph 3.e, he was 
ordered to serve 14 days in jail. (GE 2 at 11) 
Applicant attributes his failure to appear at the court hearings to immaturity and 
irresponsibility. (Tr. 48) Currently, he does not have a driver’s license. His previous 
license expired, and he cannot renew it until he pays the fines from his pr evious traffic 
offenses. (Tr. 45) He was on a payment plan, but missed one payment, Consequently, 
the municipality required him to pay the remainder in a $374 lump sum, which he has yet 
to do. (Tr. 49, 51) 
Policies  
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion the Executive  
Branch has in regulating access to information pertaining to national security,  
emphasizing that “no  one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.”  Department of the Navy  
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518,  528 (1988). When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for  a security  
clearance, the administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition  
to brief introductory explanations  for each guideline, the adjudicative guideli nes list  
potentially  disqualifying conditions  and  mitigating conditions, which are required to be  
considered in evaluating an applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information.  
These guidelines  are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing  the complexities of  
human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the factors listed in the  
adjudicative process.  The administrative judge’s overall adjudicative goal is a fair,  
impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶  2(a), the entire process is a  
conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the “whole- person concept.”  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
   
  
    
    
 
 
 
  
      
  
 
 
 
 
     
   
   
  
    
      
  
  
      
The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the 
person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 1(d) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present 
evidence to establish controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, 
the applicant is responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, 
explain, extenuate, or mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department 
Counsel. . ..” The applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable 
security decision. 
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must consider the 
totality of an applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances in light of the nine 
adjudicative process factors in AG ¶ 2(d). They are as follows: 
(1) the nature, extent,  and ser
 iousness of the conduct;  
(2) the circumstances  sur rounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation;   
(3) the frequency  and r ecency  of the conduct;   
(4) the individual’s  age and  maturity  at the time of  the conduct;   
(5) the extent to which participation is voluntary;   
(
6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation and other  perm anent  
behavioral changes;   
(7) the motivation for the conduct;   
(8) the potential  for  pressure, coercion,  exploitation, or duress; and  
(9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Analysis  
Gui
deline F: Financial Considerations  
The sec
urity concern under this Guideline states that “failure to live within one’s 
means, satisfy debts, and meet financial obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack 
of judgment, or unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified 
or sensitive information.” (AG ¶ 18) Applicant’s history of financial delinquencies triggers 
the application of AG ¶ 19(a), “inability to satisfy debts;” and AG ¶ 19(c),”a history of not 
meeting financial obligations.” 
The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 are potentially applicable: 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
    
    
  
   
    
   
  
 
 
   
 
    
 
  
   
    
     
   
 
  
 
      
   
 
(a) the behavior happened so l ong ago,
  was so infrequent, or occurred  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good  judgment;  
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial  probl em were largely beyond  
the person’s control  (e.g., loss of employment, a business  downturn,  
unexpected medical emergency, a death,  divorce, or separation, clear  
victimization by  predatory  lending pract ices, or identity theft),  and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;   
(c) the individual  has r eceived or is receiving financial counseling for the  
problem from  a legitimate and credible source, such as a non- profit credit  
counseling service,  and there are clear indications that the problem is being  
resolved or is under control; and  
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- fai th effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debt.  
Appli
cant’s debts remain outstanding. The only one that he is paying is his child 
support delinquency, which has minimal probative value because he is paying it through 
a garnishment . He provided no evidence substantiating any payment plans, and no 
evidence substantiating the basis of the dispute for the debt he contested. Lastly, he 
clearly continues to struggle with his finances, as he is unable to pay the balance of 
various court penalties, which is preventing him from reinstating his driving license. Under 
these circumstances, none of the mitigating conditions apply, and Applicant has failed to 
mitigate the financial considerations security concerns. 
Guideline H: Drug Involvement  
Under this guideline, “[t]he illegal use of controlled substances, to include the 
misuse of prescription and non-prescription drugs, and the use of other substances that 
cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner inconsistent with their 
intended purpose can raise questions about an individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, 
both because such behavior may lead to physical or psychological impairment and 
because it raises questions about a person’s ability or will ingness to comply with laws, 
rules, and regulations. (AG ¶ 24) Applicant’s use of marijuana with varying degrees of 
frequency from 20 09 to 2023, including from 2015 to 2017 when he held a sensitive 
position, triggers the application of AG ¶ 25(a) “any substance misuse,” and AG ¶ 25(f) 
“any illegal drug use while granted access to classified information or holding a sensitive 
position.” 
Applicant has not used marijuana for approximately two years. He candidly 
discussed his immaturity and expressed an intent not to use it again. However, this is not 
enough time to conclude that he has mitigated the security concern, given the length of 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
   
      
 
  
 
     
 
   
 
  
 
     
     
    
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
     
    
  
   
 
   
 
  
 
    
 
time that he used it in the past. This triggers the partial application of AG ¶ 26(b), “the 
individual acknowledges his or her drug involvement and substance misuse . .  .” Given 
the length of time that Applicant used marijuana, it is too soon t o conclude that he has 
mitigated the drug involvement security concern. 
Guideline  J: Criminal Conduct  
Under this guideline, “criminal conduct creates doubt about a person’s judgment, 
reliability, and trustworthiness [and] by its very nature . . . calls into question a person’s 
ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regula tions.” (AG ¶ 30) Applicant’s 
marijuana and gun possession charges occurred eight years ago, and neither were 
prosecuted. Under these circumstances, I resolve subparagraph 3.a in Applicant’s favor. 
Applicant’s failures to appear in court on various traffic -related misdemeanor 
charges between April 2021 and September 202 2, and his contempt of court charg e 
trigger the application of AG 31(a), “a pattern of minor offenses, any one of which on its 
own would be unlikely to affect a national security eligibility decision, but which in 
combination, cast doubt on the individual’s judgment, reliability, or trustworthiness.” 
Applicant testified sincerely and contritely, acknowledging the irresponsibility of the 
conduct, and the most recent failure to appear charge is more than three years old. 
Conversely, Applicant never completely satisfied the court -ordered fines, and is not 
currently making payments toward their satisfaction. Under these circumstances, it is too 
soon to conclude he has resolved the criminal conduct security concerns. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Applicant’s financial problems were caused by circumstances beyond his control. 
However, he presented insufficient evidence establishing the steps that he testified that 
he was taking to remedy them. Upon considering this case in the context of the whole-
person concept, I conclude Applicant has failed to mitigate the security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:  AGAINST APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 1.a  –  1.h:  A
 gainst Applicant  
Paragraph 2, G uideline  H:   AGAINST  APPLI CANT  
Subparagraph 2.a:   A gainst Applicant  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
    
 
 
     
     
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
_____________________ 
Paragraph 3, Guideline J:  AG
 AINST APPLICANT  
Subparagraph 3.a  –  3.f:  Against Applicant  
Conclusion  
In 
light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant Applicant’s eligibility for a 
security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Marc E. Curry 
Administrative Judge 
7 