     
                                                              
                         
          
           
             
 
 
    
  
       
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
        
    
  
 
 
        
        
          
          
 
 
    
       
       
          
             
   
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-01316 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Andre M. Gregorian, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
03/27/2025 
Decision 
Dorsey, Benjamin R., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant mitigated the drug involvement and substance misuse security concerns. 
He did not mitigate the personal conduct security concerns . Eligibility for access t o 
classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
On August 23, 2024, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline H, drug 
involvement and substance misus e, and Guideline E, personal conduct. On August 28, 
2024, Applicant responded to the SOR and requested a decision based on the written 
record in lieu of a hearing. 
The Government’s written case was submitted on November 8, 2024. A complete 
copy of the file of relevant material (FORM) was provided to Applicant, who was given 30 
days to file objections and submit material to refute, extenuate, or mitigate the security 
concerns. Applicant received the FORM on November 26, 2024, but he did not respond 
to it . The case was assigned to me on February 20, 20 25. The Government exhibits 
included in the FORM (Items 1-7) are admitted in evidence without objection. 
Findings of Fact  
 
 
 
 
          
         
      
          
        
    
  
         
             
           
        
              
        
  
  
 
         
      
        
    
 
       
        
        
    
 
 
          
          
        
    
 
       
        
         
  
 
 
               
          
          
    
          
        
      
             
Applicant is a 23-year-old who is being sponsored for a security clearance by a 
government contractor. He earned a high school diploma in 2020 and two associate 
degrees in 2022. He worked for government contractors as an intern while he was 
attending college. The record is unclear whether he is a full-time student applying for an 
internship or whether he has finished school and entered the workforce. He has not been 
married and has no children. (Items 3-6) 
From about November 2019 to June 2021, Applicant used marijuana 
approximately eight times. He smoked it in a social setting with friends on all eight 
occasions. In about October 2021, he inhaled cocaine on one occasion at a bar with a 
friend. His friend provided the cocaine, and Applicant was slightly intoxicated at the time. 
He claimed that he does not believe that he would have snorted the cocaine if he had not 
been consuming alcohol. He claimed he had no future intent to use marijuana, cocaine, 
or any other illegal substance because they are illegal, unhealthy, and incompatible with 
his career aspirations. (Items 2-6) 
On August 11, 2021, Applicant completed and certified an Electronic 
Questionnaires for Investigations Processing (202 1 SCA ). He did not disclose his 
November 2019 to June 2021 marijuana use , as required . In December 2021, he was 
granted eligibility for a position of public trust. (Items 2, 3, 6, 7) 
On December 21, 2022, Applicant completed and certified an Electronic 
Questionnaires for Investigations Processing (2022 SCA). He again failed to disclose his 
November 2019 to June 2021 marijuana use, as required. He did not disclose his October 
2021 cocaine use, as required. (Items 2, 4, 6) 
On February 14, 2023, Applicant had a security interview with a DOD investigator 
(2023 SI). During the 2023 SI, he did not volunteer his marijuana and cocaine use. He 
claimed that the information he provided in the December 2022 SCA regarding his drug 
use (or lack thereof) was accurate. In March 2023, he was granted security clearance 
eligibility. (Items 2, 4, 6, 7) 
On December 13, 2023, Applicant completed and certified an Electronic 
Questionnaires for Investigations Processing (2023 SCA). In the 2023 SCA, he disclosed 
his November 2019 to June 2021 marijuana use and his October 2021 cocaine use. 
(Items 2, 5, 6) 
On February 16, 2024, Applicant had a security interview with a DOD investigator 
(2024 SI). During the 2024 SI, Applicant discussed his marijuana and cocaine use in a 
manner consistent with the information he provided in the 2023 SCA . He initially denied 
that he had deliberately omitted or falsified information in the past on any forms, or to any 
employer, investigator, or other security official. Upon further questioning by the DOD 
investigator, Applicant admitted that he lied to the previous investigator during the 2023 
SI about his illegal drug use. He admitted he lied during the 2023 SI because he thought 
it would negatively impact his security clearance eligibility if he told the truth about his 
illegal drug use. For a time, he continued to lie during the 2024 SI about his prior reporting 
2 
 
 
 
         
            
             
          
             
             
          
            
         
   
 
          
            
               
            
       
             
           
            
         
        
           
        
        
            
   
 
 
    
      
       
      
 
 
     
        
      
         
   
 
          
     
         
            
     
       
of his illegal drug use. He claimed that he had reported his illegal drug use as required on 
the 2021 SCA and the 2022 SCA. When the investigator indicated to Appl icant that he 
had not listed this illegal drug use on either of those SCAs, Applicant continued to be 
untruthful and claimed that he did not list his marijuana use on the 2021 SCA because he 
thought it was legal, therefore he was not required to list it. He also claimed that he did 
not list his marijuana and cocaine involvement on the 2022 SCA due to oversight because 
he did not read the question carefully. Eventually, Applicant admitted to the DOD 
investigator during the 2024 SI that the actual reason that he did not disclose the required 
information on the 2021 SCA and 2022 SCA was because he did not want his disclosure 
of that information to negatively affect his security clearance eligibility. (Items 2-6) 
In his response to the SOR, Applicant admitted his illegal marijuana and cocaine 
use as described above (SOR ¶¶ 2.a and 2.b) . He admitted he deliberately failed to 
disclose his marijuana use on the 2021 SCA (SOR ¶ 1.a) and the 2022 SCA (SOR ¶ 1.b). 
He also admitted he deliberately failed to disclose his illegal cocaine use on the 2022 
SCA (SOR ¶ 1.c). He admitted that he falsified material facts by deliberately concealing 
his marijuana and cocaine use during the 2023 SI (SOR ¶¶ 1.d and 1.e) . Finally, he 
admitted that he falsified material facts during the 2024 SI to cover up his falsifications 
about his illegal drug involvement during the 2023 SI (SOR ¶ 1.f). He provided a narrative 
stating that he understands that he should not have lied about his illegal drug involvement. 
He claimed that he understands why the Government needs to be able to trust the 
individuals it allows access to classified information, and that his actions did not convey 
trustworthiness. He partially blamed his young age when he first applied for a security 
clearance, but claimed he is ashamed of his actions, and he will not repeat them. He 
affirmed his dedication to the country and wrote that he would never do anything to harm 
it. (Items 2-6) 
Policies  
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines (AG ), which became 
effective on June 8, 2017. 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number o f variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
3 
 
 
 
         
 
 
      
    
    
 
        
       
       
      
         
 
           
        
    
              
      
       
           
  
 
          
           
      
  
 
 
 
         
   
  
 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline H, Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse  
The security concern for drug involvement and substance misuse is set out in AG 
¶ 24: 
The  illegal use  of controlled  substances,  to  include  the  misuse  of  
prescription  and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances 
that  cause  physical or mental impairment  or are  used  in a  manner  
inconsistent with  their  intended  purpose  can  raise  questions about an  
individual’s reliability and  trustworthiness, both  because  such  behavior may  
lead  to  physical or psychological impairment and  because  it raises  
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules,  
and  regulations.  Controlled  substance  means  any “controlled  substance” as  
defined  in 21  U.S.C. 802. Substance  misuse  is the  generic term  adopted  in  
this guideline  to  describe any of the behaviors listed above.  
4 
 
 
 
 
  
        
     
      
         
  
 
 
     
   
 
 
 
On  October 25, 2014, the Director of National  Intelligence (the  Security Executive  
Agent (SecEA))  issued  DNI Memorandum  ES  2014-00674, “Adherence  to  Federal Laws  
Prohibiting Marijuana  Use,” which  states:  
[C]hanges  to  state  laws and  the  laws of  the  District of Columbia pertaining  
to  marijuana  use  do  not alter the  existing  National Security Adjudicative  
Guidelines  .  . . .   An  individual’s disregard  of  federal law  pertaining  to  the  
use, sale, or manufacture of  marijuana  remains adjudicatively relevant in  
national security determinations. As always,  adjudicative  authorities are 
expected  to  evaluate  claimed  or developed  use  of,  or involvement with,  
marijuana  using  the  current adjudicative criteria.  The adjudicative  authority  
must  determine  if  the  use  of,  or  involvement with, marijuana  raises  
questions about the   individual’s judgment,  reliability, trustworthiness, and   
willingness to  comply with  law, rules, and  regulations, including  federal  
laws, when  making  eligibility decisions of  persons proposed  for, or 
occupying, sensitive national security positions.  
On December 21, 2021, t he SecEA promulgated clarifying guidance concerning 
marijuana-related issues in security clearance adjudications (Security Executive Agent 
Clarifying Guidance Concerning Marijuana for Agencies Conducting Adjudications of 
Persons Proposed for Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold 
a Sensitive Position). It states in pertinent part: 
[Federal] agencies are  instructed  that prior recreational  marijuana  use  by  
an  individual may be  relevant to  adjudications but not determinative. The  
SecEA  has provided  direction  in  [the  adjudicative  guidelines]  to  agencies  
that requires them  to  use  a  “whole-person  concept.” This requires  
adjudicators to  carefully weigh  a  number of variables in  an  individual’s life  
to determine  whether that individual’s behavior raises a security concern, if  
at all, and  whether that  concern  has been  mitigated  such  that  the  individual  
may now receive a  favorable adjudicative  determination.  Relevant  
mitigations include, but  are not limited  to, frequency of use  and  whether the  
individual can  demonstrate  that  future use  is unlikely to  recur, including  by  
signing  an  attestation  or other such  appropriate  mitigation.  Additionally, in  
light of the  long-standing  federal law and  policy prohibiting  illegal drug  use  
while occupying  a  sensitive  position  or  holding  a  security clearance,  
agencies are encouraged  to  advise  prospective  national  security workforce  
employees that they should refrain  from  any  future marijuana  use  upon  
initiation  of the  national security vetting  process, which  commences once  
the  individual signs  the  certification  contained  in the  Standard Form  86  (SF-
86),  Questionnaire  for National Security Positions.    
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 25. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) any substance  misuse (see above  definition);  and  
5 
 
 
 
 
       
        
      
 
          
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
(c)  illegal possession  of a  controlled  substance, including  cultivation,  
processing, manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession  of  
drug paraphernalia.  
Appellant used marijuana with varying frequency from November 2019 until June 
2021. He used cocaine in October 2021. By using marijuana and cocaine, he would have 
had to possess them. AG ¶¶ 25(a) and 25(c) are established. 
AG ¶ 26 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. The following 
are potentially applicable: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or happened  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur or does  not cast  doubt  
on  the  individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  judgment;  and  
(b) the  individual acknowledges his or her drug  involvement and  substance  
misuse,  provides evidence  of actions taken  to  overcome  this problem, and  
has established  a pattern of abstinence, including, but not limited  to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts;  
(2) changing  or avoiding  the  environment where drugs were  
used; and  
(3) providing  a  signed  statement of intent to  abstain  from  all  
drug  involvement and substance  misuse,  acknowledging  that  
any future involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation  of  
national security eligibility.  
It has  been  about  three  and  one-half  years  since  Applicant  used  or  was involved  
with  illegal  substances.  His illegal drug  use  occurred  when  he  was a  teenager  in high  
school and  college,  and  it  was relatively infrequent (eight-time  marijuana  use  and  one-
time  cocaine  use).  For  these  reasons, AG ¶  26(a) and  AG  ¶  26(b) both  apply. I find  that  
he has mitigated  the drug involvement and substance  misuse security concerns.   
Guideline  E, Personal Conduct  
The security concern for personal conduct is set out in AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving  questionable judgment, lack of candor,  dishonesty,  or  
unwillingness to  comply with  rules and  regulations can  raise  questions  
about an  individual's  reliability, trustworthiness, and  ability to  protect  
classified  or sensitive  information.  Of  special  interest is any  failure to  
cooperate  or provide  truthful and  candid answers during  national  security 
investigative or adjudicative processes.   
6 
 
 
 
    
     
 
 
 
            
         
    
             
 
 
        
   
 
 
 
   
     
             
          
          
   
 
       
          
         
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 16. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) deliberate  omission, concealment,  or falsification  of relevant facts from  
any personnel  security questionnaire, personal history statement,  or similar  
form  used  to  conduct investigations,  determine  employment qualifications,  
award  benefits or status,  determine  security clearance  eligibility or 
trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities; and  
(b) deliberately providing  false or misleading  information; or concealing  or  
omitting  information, concerning  relevant facts to  an  employer, investigator,  
security official, competent medical or mental  health  professional involved  
in making  a  recommendation  relevant to  a  national security eligibility 
determination, or other government officially.  
Applicant deliberately omitted his illegal marijuana use from the 2021 SCA and the 
2022 SCA, as required . He deliberately omitted his illegal cocaine use from the 2022 
SCA, as required. He deliberately provided false information to DOD investigators about 
his illegal drug use during the 2023 SI and the 2024 SI. AG ¶ ¶ 16(a) and 16(b) are 
established. 
AG ¶ 17 provides conditions that could mitigate personal conduct security 
concerns. The following mitigating conditions potentially apply in Applicant's case: 
(a) the  individual made  prompt,  good-faith  efforts to  correct the  omission,  
concealment,  or falsification  before being confronted with the facts;  
(c)  the  offense  is so  minor, or so  much  time  has passed, or the  behavior is 
so  infrequent, or it happened  under such  unique  circumstances that it is 
unlikely to  recur and  does  not  cast  doubt on  the  individual's reliability,  
trustworthiness, or good judgment; and  
(d) the  individual has acknowledged  the  behavior and  obtained  counseling  
to  change  the  behavior or taken  other positive steps to  alleviate  the  
stressors, circumstances, or  factors that  contributed  to  untrustworthy, 
unreliable, or other inappropriate behavior, and such  behavior is unlikely to  
recur.  
Applicant arguably corrected his omission or concealment of his marijuana and 
cocaine involvement when he disclosed it in the 2023 SCA. However, he did so about two 
years after the omission. Therefore, his correction was not prompt. He also continued to 
lie to DOD investigators about his illegal drug involvement and the reasons he failed to 
report it after submitting the 2023 SCA. AG ¶ 17(a) does not apply. 
Deliberately omitting or falsifying required information during the security 
clearance process is not minor. Instead, this action strikes at the heart of the process, 
which relies on candid and honest reporting. Applicant omitted and falsif ied relevant 
7 
 
 
 
      
      
       
        
        
   
 
 
 
         
      
      
        
      
     
   
  
 
       
       
         
       
        
 
 
      
       
         
 
 
 
        
    
 
   
 
  
 
   
 
  
information over multiple security clearance investigations; in both security clearance 
applications and during security interviews. H e has not shown that his behavior was 
infrequent, happened under unique circumstances, or is unlikely to recur. AG ¶ 17(c) does 
not apply. While he acknowledged his deceitful behavior, he did not provide evidence of 
any counseling or other steps he took to change the behavior or alleviate the factors that 
led to his untrustworthy behavior. AG ¶ 17(d) does not apply. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the  whole-person  concept,  the  administrative judge  must  evaluate  an  
applicant’s eligibility for a  security clearance  by considering  the  totality of the  applicant’s  
conduct and  all  relevant circumstances.  The  administrative  judge  should  consider the  
nine  adjudicative  process factors listed at AG  ¶ 2(d):  
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. I considered the potentially 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances 
surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under Guidelines H and E in my 
whole-person analysis. 
Overall, the r ecord evidence leaves me with questions and doubts about 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. I conclude he mitigated the 
drug involvement and substance misuse security concerns, but he did not mitigate the 
personal conduct security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  E:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a-1.f:  Against Applicant 
Paragraph  2, Guideline  H:   FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  2.a  and 2.b:  For Applicant 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
   
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
Conclusion 
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for 
a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Benjamin R. Dorsey 
Administrative Judge 
9 