 
 
                                         
 
 
 
         
           
             
 
   
  
       
   
    
 
 
     
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
      
  
 
  
        
     
      
        
      
    
       
      
        
  
 
          
       
            
         
 
 
___________ 
___________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 24-00503 
Appearances  
For Government: Dan O’Reilley, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
01/15/2025 
Decision 
BENSON, Pamela C., Administrative Judge: 
Security concerns arising under Guideline H (drug involvement and substance 
misuse) are not mitigated. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
On August 2, 2023, Applicant completed and signed an Electronic Questionnaires 
for Investigations Processing (e-QIP) or security clearance application (SCA). On May 6, 
2024, the Department of Defense (DOD) Consolidated Adjudication Services (CAS) 
issued a statement of reasons ( SOR) to Applicant under Executive O rder (Exec. Or.) 
10865, Safeguarding Cl assified I nformation within Industry, February 20, 1960; DOD 
Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program 
(Directive), January 2, 1992; and Security Executive Agent Directive 4, establishing in 
Appendix A the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for 
Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AGs), effective 
June 8, 2017. 
Applicant responded to the SOR (Answer) and requested a hearing before an 
administrative judge. The case was assigned to me on August 21, 2024. On September 
11, 2024, the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a notice of hearing 
by video tel econference scheduled for October 3, 2024. The hearing was convened as 
arranged. 
1 
 
 
                                         
 
     
              
       
           
       
      
         
  
 
 
           
        
           
           
   
 
        
            
         
       
        
  
 
 
        
           
          
           
         
          
         
  
 
            
            
          
      
            
         
          
    
 
           
 
 
During the hearing, Department Counsel offered Government Exhibits (GE) 1 and 
2, and Applicant testified but did not offer any documents. There were no objections, and 
the proffered exhibits were admitted into evidence. The Government’s August 12, 2024 
disclosure letter was marked as Hearing Exhibit (HE) I and appended to the record. I held 
the record open until October 2 4, 2024, in the event either party wanted to supplement 
the record. DOHA received the transcript (Tr.) on October 10, 2024. Applicant time ly 
submitted Applicant Exhibits (AE) A through K . There were no objections, and the 
proffered exhibits were admitted into evidence. 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s Answer, he admitted all of the SOR allegation s. (¶¶ 1.a-1.e) He 
provided a statement that affirmed, “…although I can not change my past use [of 
marijuana], I would be willing to sign a document stating I will no longer use this substance 
and adhere to the guidelines.” His admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Additional 
findings follow. 
Applicant is 37 years old. He was enrolled in some college classes, and he 
graduated from a three -month trade school in 2016. He is married with no children. He 
and his wife are currently going through divorce proceedings. He has been employed by 
a federal contractor since July 2023 as a software developer. His employer is sponsoring 
him for a DOD security clearance in order that he can perform specific duties . This is 
Applicant’s first submission for a security clearance. (Tr. 13, 33) 
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  and Personal Conduct  
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges Applicant used marijuana with varying frequency from about 
June 2008 to about April 2024. SOR ¶ 1.b alleges he purchased marijuana from about 
June 2008 to at least October 2023. Applicant estimated that he spent about $400 to $500 
annually for marijuana that he would purchase from friends. He calculated that 20 percent 
of his marijuana use was for recreational purposes, and 80 percent of his use was to help 
him sleep. His use of marijuana varied, and at most he would smoke marijuana five times 
a week. He does not have a medical prescription to use marijuana , and h is state o f 
residence has not legalized the use of marijuana. (Tr. 19-25; GE 2) 
Applicant completed an SCA on August 2, 2023. Under Section 23 – Illegal Use of 
Drugs or Drug Activity, he disclosed that he had used marijuana from June 2008 to May 
2023, for recreational use and as a sleep aid when needed. His weekly use could range 
from 0 to 4 times per week. Applicant also listed that he intended to use marijuana in the 
future. (SOR ¶ 1.e) He was aware at the time he completed the SCA that marijuana use 
was prohibited by federal law and in his state of residence. Applicant continued to use 
marijuana after he completed the SCA and after he participated in a background interview 
in October 2023. (SOR ¶ 1.c) (GE 1, 2; Tr. 25-27) 
Department Counsel asked Applicant if he intended to use marijuana in the future. 
Applicant stated, 
2 
 
 
                                         
 
 
           
            
          
               
              
            
        
          
          
 
 
  
 
 
 
        
       
          
          
          
          
   
 
 
       
       
         
      
        
       
       
It’s, this is where  this question  kind  of gets fuzzy for me, is, again,   I’m  not  
here to  lie  or be  untruthful, it  comes  down  to  I guess different situations at  
the  time. So, as of right now there  is no  intended  future  use  to  it while  
holding  the security  clearance, even if a security clearance was still denied  
…so  as  far as  right now goes  the  intended  future  use  would be  strictly  
situational based  on  several different factors. I’m  not saying  it would  be  an  
absolutely, as of right now there  isn’t that intent.  It’s just,  I always read  that  
question  as, between  now and  the  time  you  die will  you  ever use. I can’t say  
no, but I can’t say yes, there’s probability.  (Tr 26-27)  
Applicant admitted in about 2014 he failed a pre-employment drug test after testing 
positive for marijuana. (SOR ¶ 1.d) He admitted this was the only time he failed a drug 
test. Although he regretted testing positive, he resumed his use of marijuana. Afterwards 
his believed his marijuana usage changed to using it more as a sleep aid rather than for 
recreational purposes. When he is aware that he will be undergoing a drug test, he is able 
to abstain from using it so he will not test positive. He was drug tested by his current 
employer, and after he was hired, he resumed his use of marijuana. The longest period 
Applicant abstained from using marijuana occurred in 2020 during the COVID-19 
pandemic, when finding marijuana to purchase was difficult. He has never used any other 
illegal drug. (Tr. 27-29) 
Applicant stated, 
As soon  as  I got  the  interrogations  [in  April 2024],  not only have  I  
immediately quit  [marijuana], I disposed  of everything  of relevance  for it,  
anything  that was left over I wrapped  it in a  box, gave  it to  a  friend, said if 
you want it it’s yours, don’t care.  . .  I’m done  with it for now.  (Tr. 38)  
Character Evidence  
Applicant provided ten reference letters attesting to his character. The general and 
repetitive theme of these letters used illustrative words such as reliable, genuine, 
intelligent, and trustworthy to describe Applicant. Many references considered him to be 
an asset to any employer. Applicant also provided an October 2024 letter of intent to 
abstain from using marijuana while possessing an active security clearance , and he 
acknowledged that any future involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation of national 
security eligibility. (AE A-K) 
Policies  
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion of the Executive 
Branch in regulating access to information pertaining to national security emphasizing, 
“no one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 
518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual 
is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The President 
has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicant’s eligibility for 
3 
 
 
                                         
 
        
        
   
 
       
        
     
           
      
      
    
 
         
   
         
     
     
       
           
        
           
    
       
     
   
 
   
   
        
        
       
       
       
          
 
 
     
         
          
     
         
            
     
   
 
 
 
access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly consistent with the 
national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge ’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation 
about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Clearance 
decisions must be “in terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a 
determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 § 7. 
Thus, nothing in this decision should be construed to suggest that it is based, in whole or 
in part, on any express or implied determination about applicant ’s allegiance, loyalty, or 
patriotism. It is merely an indication the applicant has not met the strict guidelines the 
President, Secretary of Defense, and Director of National In telligence have established 
for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guideline s 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant ’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 95 -0611 at 2 
(App. Bd. May 2, 1996). 
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition by substantial 
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it 
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue his security clearance.” 
ISCR Case No. 01 -20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). The burden of disproving a 
mitigating condition never shifts to the Government. See ISCR Case No. 02-31154 at 5 
(App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if they must, 
on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; see AG ¶ 2(b). 
4 
 
 
                                         
 
 
 
          
  
 
 
            
 
 
 
 
 
       
   
 
  
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
   
Analysis  
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
AG ¶ 24 provides the security concern arising from drug involvement and 
substance misuse stating: 
The  illegal use  of controlled  substances,  to  include  the  misuse  of  
prescription  and  non-prescription  drugs, and  the  use  of other substances  
that cause  physical or mental impairment  or are used  in a  manner  
inconsistent with  their  intended  purpose  can  raise  questions about an  
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may  
lead  to  physical or psychological  impairment and  because  it  raises questions  
about a  person’s ability or willingness to  comply with  laws, rules, and   
regulations. Controlled  substance  means any “controlled  substance”  as  
defined  in 21  U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the  generic term  adopted  in  
this guideline  to  describe any of the behaviors listed above.  
AG ¶ 25 provides conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying in this case: 
(a) any substance  misu se (see above  definition);  
(b) testing positive for an illegal drug;  
(c)  illegal possession  of a  controlled  substance, including  cultivation,  
processing, manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession  of  
drug paraphernalia;  and   
(g) expressed intent to continue drug involvement and substance misuse , 
or failure to clearly and convincingly commit to discontinue such use. 
The record establishes AG ¶¶ 25(a), 25(b), 25(c), and 25(g). 
AG ¶ 26 lists the following potential conditions that could mitigate security concerns: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or happened  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur or does  not cast  doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;  
(b) the  individual acknowledges his or her drug  involvement and  substance  
misuse,  provides evidence  of actions taken  to  overcome  this problem, and  
has established  a pattern of abstinence, including, but not limited  to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts;  
(2) changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were used; and 
5 
 
 
                                         
 
 
 
 
     
        
       
 
 
           
    
 
 
 
            
        
         
           
              
           
     
  
 
        
          
          
          
          
 
      
    
           
 
 
 
(3) providing  a  signed  statement of intent  to  abstain from  all  drug  
involvement and  substance  misuse, acknowledging  that any future  
involvement  or  misuse  is grounds for revocation  of national security  
eligibility;  and  
(d) satisfactory completion of a prescribed drug treatment program, 
including, but not limited to, rehabilitation and aftercare requirements, 
without recurrence of abuse, and a favorable prognosis by a duly qualified 
medical professional. 
In ISCR Case No. 10 -04641 at 4 (App. Bd. Sept. 24, 2013) , the DOHA Appeal 
Board concisely explained Applicant ’s responsibility for proving the applicability of 
mitigating conditions as follows: 
Once  a  concern arises regarding  an  Applicant’s  security  clearance  
eligibility,  there is a  strong  presumption  against the  grant or maintenance  of  
a  security clearance. See  Dorfmont  v.  Brown, 913  F.  2d  1399,  1401  (9th  
Cir. 1990), cert.  denied,  499  U.S.  905  (1991).  After the  Government  
presents  evidence  raising  security concerns, the  burden  shifts  to  the  
applicant to rebut or mitigate those concerns. See  Directive ¶ E3.1.15. The  
standard applicable in  security clearance  decisions is that articulated  in  
Egan, supra. “Any  doubt concerning  personnel being  considered  for  access  
to  classified  information  will  be  resolved  in  favor of  the  national security.” 
Directive, Enclosure 2, [App. A] ¶  2(b).   
Applicant first used marijuana nearly 17 years ago , and he stopped his use of 
marijuana less than one year ago. He knew his marijuana possession and use was 
prohibited by federal and state law. To his credit, he was candid about his marijuana use, 
and during the hearing he admitted that he could not state with complete certainty that he 
will not use marijuana in the future. After the hearing, he provided a signed statement of 
intent to abstain from all drug involvement and substance misuse while holding an active 
security clearance , and he acknowledged that any future involvement or misuse is 
grounds for revocation of national security eligibility. 
Applicant intentionally abstained from using marijuana to pass his pre-employment 
drug test. He resumed his marijuana use after he was hired by his current employer. 
Applicant continued to use marijuana after he submitted the August 2023 SCA, and after 
he participated in a background interview in October 2023. His decision to repeatedly 
possess and use marijuana is an indication he lacks the qualities expected of those 
individuals with access to national secrets. I am not convinced his marijuana possession 
and use “happened under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur [and] does not 
cast doubt on [his] current reliability, trustworthiness, [and] good judgment. ” I am 
uncertain about his history and future marijuana use. Guideline H security concerns are 
not mitigated. 
6 
 
 
                                         
 
 
        
      
       
   
 
         
      
      
        
      
     
   
  
  
       
        
        
        
    
 
         
        
    
 
        
         
       
      
      
        
        
    
          
    
 
       
           
        
       
      
 
 
  
   
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole -person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all the circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), “[t]he ultimate determination” of whether to grant a security 
clearance “must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines” and the whole-person concept. M y comments under Guideline H are 
incorporated in my whole -person analysis. Some of the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) were 
addressed under those guidelines but some warrant additional comment. 
Applicant candidly discussed his history of involvement with marijuana on his SCA, 
during his background interview, in his SOR response, and at his hearing . He promised 
not to use marijuana in the future. 
The DOHA Appeal Board held in ISCR Case No. 21 -02534 at 4 , (App. Bd. Feb. 
13, 2023) “[A]fter applying for a security clearance and being adequately placed on notice 
that such conduct was inconsistent with holding a security clearance, an applicant who 
continues to use marijuana demonstrates a disregard for security clearance eligibility 
standards, and such behavior raises substantial questions about the applicant’s 
judgment, reliability, and willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations.” In this 
case, Applicant continued to use marijuana after passing a pre -employment drug test, 
after submitting his August 2023 SCA, and after his October 2023 background interview. 
He was aware that marijuana use was prohibited by federal and state law. He did not stop 
his use of marijuana until April 2024, once he responded to DOHA interrogatories. 
I have carefully applied the law, as set forth in Egan, Exec. Or. 10865, the Directive, 
the AGs, and the Appeal Board’s jurisprudence to the facts and circumstances in the 
context of the whole person. I find in favor of Applicant for SOR ¶ 1.c because the conduct 
is already alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a, and I consider it a duplicate allegation. Overall, Applicant 
failed to mitigate drug involvement and substance misuse security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
7 
 
 
                                         
 
  
     
 
  
 
    
 
 
            
    
 
 
 
 
  
 
______________________ 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  H:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a, 1.b, 1.d, and  1.e:  Against Applicant 
Subparagraph  1.c:  For Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant Applicant eligibility for 
access to classified information. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Pamela C. Benson 
Administrative Judge 
8 