 
  
                   
 
           
  
 
 
  
  
      
  
   
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
     
 
 
 
 
    
  
     
    
 
   
   
 
     
 
 
0 ::-~ :: .... '"', _...,. 0 
~ .~~- °" > 
Q~ 
______________ 
______________ 
                                           
                        DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
        DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS  
           
In the 
matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 24-00968 
Appearances  
For Government: George A. Hawkins, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Eric Leckie, Esq. 
08/12/2025 
Decision 
LAFAYE, Gatha, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant provided insufficient evidence to mitigate security concerns raised under 
Guidelines H ( drug involvement and substance misuse) and E (personal conduct) . 
Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on November 16, 2023. 
On August 22, 2024, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of Reasons 
(SOR) alleging security concerns under Guidelines H and E. Applicant answered the SOR 
on October 28, 2024 (Answer) and requested a hearing before an administrative judge. 
The case was assigned to me on May 29, 2025. 
On June 5, 2025, the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a 
notice scheduling the hearing for July 23, 2025. On July 18, 2025 , the Government 
amended the SO R. On July 23, 2025, the Government amended the SOR again. 
Applicant answered the SOR amendment and requested to proceed with the hearing as 
scheduled. The hearing was held as scheduled. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
   
     
 
 
 
 
       
        
      
        
       
     
    
  
 
        
    
    
         
      
     
      
   
 
       
     
      
     
 
     
      
        
     
   
      
      
   
      
 
At the hearing, the Government offered five exhibits , Government Exhibit (GE) 1 
through GE 5, which were admitted in evidence without objection. Applicant testified and 
offered four exhibits, Applicant’s Exhibit (AE) A through AE D, which were also admitted 
without objection. DOHA received the hearing transcript (Tr.) on August 1, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
In  his Answer  to the SOR, Applicant  admitted all allegations  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a –  1.i, and 
2.a  –  2.d).  At  the hearing, he admitted the allegation in the SOR  amendment (SOR 1.j). 
His  admissions are incorporated in  my findings of fact.  After thorough review of  the  
evidence, I make the following additional  finding of facts.  
Applicant is 2 5 years old. He earned his high school diploma in May 2018, and 
enlisted in the United States Navy in August 2018. He completed college courses while 
serving and earned an associate degree in November 2021. He was honorably 
discharged from the Navy in August 2023 and enrolled in college to complete his 
bachelor’s degree in cybersecurity, which is anticipated in late 2025. He has never 
married and has no children. He currently supports his mother, two nephews, and a niece 
who recently moved in with him after he purchased his first home. (GE 1 – 3; AE B; Tr. at 
20-29; 51-53) 
Applicant has worked as a network designer for a defense contractor since 
November 2023. His position requires a high-level security clearance, and he completed 
his most recent SCA in November 2023. His employer has a written substance use and 
abuse policy for its employees. In Section 23 of the SCA, Applicant admitted to using and 
purchasing marijuana, hallucinogenic mushrooms, and to misusing Adderall and 
Vyvanse, not prescribed to him during various periods between April 2016 and November 
2023. Part of his drug involvement and substance misuse occurred while in a sensitive 
position. (GE 1, GE 3; Tr. at 47-50) 
Applicant failed to disclose his involvement with federally illegal drugs and his 
misuse of prescription drugs in his first SCA, which he completed in March 2018 when he 
applied to join the Navy. He was 17 years old at the time. He said he did not disclose his 
drug use for fear his application to join the Navy would be rejected. (GE 2; Tr. at 27-28) 
Applicant was raised in a large, blended family. He has 10 siblings, six of whom 
are half-siblings. He is the seventh child. Though all of his basic needs as a child were 
met, Applicant’s childhood home was filled with a lot of people in close living quarters , 
which made living conditions challenging at times. Two of Applicant’s half-sisters and a 
nephew, also l iving in the home, were diagnosed with a ttention-deficit/hyperactivity 
disorder (ADHD) and prescribed medication. Applicant said he excelled as a high school 
student and was invited to participate in a special college-preparation program that 
allowed high school students to earn community college credits for courses taken during 
their junior and senior years. (GE 1 – 3; Tr. at 20-30) 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
      
     
      
  
      
   
    
 
 
  
      
      
      
    
    
  
      
    
 
  
      
     
       
      
    
 
 
       
   
Applicant  is  aware the drugs he used, misused, and purchased  are illegal under  
federal law.  He said he first used marijuana in  2016  as a 10th  grade  student, and  he  last 
used marijuana with his  younger  brother  in January 2024 .  Before joining the Navy,  
Applicant  said he smoked marijuana three to four times  a week  and  purchased  the  
marijuana  from high school  friends. He  said he and his  friends  smoked marijuana “joints”  
in cars, during walks, and in the homes of friends.  He estimated that he has used  
marijuana between 200 and 250 times.  (GE 3; Tr. at 20-62)  
A
pplicant said he smoked marijuana four to five times while serving in the Navy. 
He used marijuana while on leave for 14 days or more, mostly to avoid detection . His 
brother had a condition that required a medical marijuana card, and he would provide 
Applicant with the marijuana he used. Applicant also disclosed he used the stimulant 
medication Adderall, not prescribed to him, between 2016 and about 2021, to help him 
focus on exams and write papers. He used the stimulant medication Vyvanse from about 
2017 to about 2021, primarily during leave periods from the Navy while visiting home . 
Vyvanse was prescribed to his nephew who was diagnosed with ADHD. (GE 1, GE 3; Tr. 
at 35-70) 
Applicant disclosed he used and purchased hallucinogenic psilocybin mushrooms 
from 2019 until his discharge from the Navy in August 2023. He claimed he purchased 
and used mushrooms to help with symptoms of anxiety and depression following long 
periods of deployment aboard a Navy ship. He said he hallucinated once, but otherwise 
mushrooms made him feel insightful and removed symptoms of depression for over six 
months, at which time he would use hallucinogenic mushrooms again to feel the same 
sensation. He said he stopped his involvement with hallucinogenic mushrooms after his 
brother “went into psychosis” while abusing mushrooms. He said his brother got better 
but “he’ll (never) be who he was before it happened.” (GE 3, GE 4; Tr. at 41-43, 95-96) 
Applicant said he used methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA or Ecstasy) in 
about 2021 at home with a guy he met online. He claimed he used it just once, and it 
made him sweat and dance more. He was aware his illegal drug use in the Navy was 
prohibited under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). He took calculated risks 
and did not fail a drug test while serving in the Navy. Applicant was granted a security 
clearance in 2018 because his duties as a Navy operations specialist (OS) required a 
security clearance. (GE 4; Tr. at 41-44; 60-70) 
After  leaving the Navy, Applicant  told a DOD  investigator  he purchased marijuana  
at dispensaries  in State 1  (S1), which  allowed  the recreational use of  marijuana.  (GE  3 at 
7) However, at the hearing Applicant  said his  roommate provided him  with  marijuana  and  
that he did not buy  marijuana at dispensaries in S1. (Tr. at  97)  He  smoked marijuana with  
his  roommate, and  said he felt  relaxed, calm, sleepy , and hu ngry  after using  it. He  
disclosed feeling “guilty” for using marijuana while serving on active duty  in the Navy.  (Tr.  
at 97-98)  
After his discharge from the Navy, Applicant said his father and brother convinced 
him to see the doctor they used to get a medical marijuana card in his home state (S2) , 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
      
      
    
    
        
      
 
  
      
       
     
     
       
       
   
 
       
      
    
      
      
 
 
     
      
     
 
 
 
    
    
      
     
       
      
 
    
      
       
and he did. He could not recall when he received his medical marijuana card but 
estimated receiving it around September 2023. (Tr. at 66) He did not offer his medical 
marijuana card in evidence, nor is there any evidence that S2 permits the recreational 
use of marijuana. Applicant said he continued to use medical marijuana until he found a 
desirable job working for a defense contractor and moved to his current state of legal 
residence (S3) in November 2023. (GE 1; Tr. at 66-98) 
Applicant said he struggled with anxiety, depression, and an eating disorder while 
serving in the Navy. (Tr. at 32-38) He said he sought help for his mental health concerns, 
and his unit health care provider referred him to Fleet and Family Support (FFS) where 
he was told medical providers were only able to help Sailors experiencing suicidal 
ideation. (Id.) He sought out private provider help and received counseling and support 
through an online mental health service. After suffering a panic attack in 2021, he enrolled 
in two online therapy sessions per week to treat symptoms of depression, anxiety, and 
an eating disorder. (Tr. at 40-50, 83-90) 
Applicant said he was diagnosed with ADHD in late 2023 and with post-traumatic 
stress disorder (PTSD) in 2024. He was initially prescribed Wellbutrin to manage his 
ADHD symptoms. Later on, he was prescribed Adderall 20mg for ADHD in 2024 and has 
been taking it since that time. Applicant admitted he tested positive for amphetamine twice 
in 2024 and once in 2025. (AE A, AE D; Tr. at 80-98) 
Applicant  took  drug  urinalysis  tests in August  2024, November  2024, March 2025,  
and May 2025  and submitted the  test results as part of his case in mitigation. All tests  
results were negative for illegal drugs, except amphetamine, which was  positive in all  test  
results except  for  the  drug test  taken  in March 2025. Applicant did not  understand why 
the results for his  March 2025  drug  test was negative for amphetamine because he  
consistently ingested  Adderall  as prescribed  by h is psychiatrist. (AE A, AE D; Tr. at 83-
86)  
The SOR alleges under Guideline H that Applicant used, misused and purchased 
the illegal drugs described above, while working in a sensitive position (i.e. one requiring 
a security clearance), during the periods indicated in each of the allegations (SOR ¶¶ 1.a 
through 1.i), and that he tested positive for amphetamine twice in 2024, and once in 2025. 
(SOR ¶ 1.j) 
Under Guideline E, t he SOR cross-alleges personal conduct security concerns 
(SOR ¶ 2.a) based on Applicant’s drug involvement described in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.i. 
It also alleges separate personal conduct concerns for Applicant’s failure to disclose, as 
required by Section 23 of his March 2018 SCA, his illegal use of marijuana, Adderall, and 
Vyvanse (SOR ¶ 2.b), his illegal purchase of marijuana and Adderall (SOR ¶ 2.c), and his 
misuse of the prescription drugs Adderall and Vyvanse (SOR ¶ 2.d). 
Applicant said he did not disclose his drug involvement in his March 2018 SCA, 
but disclosed his illegal drug involvement and substance misuse in his November 2023 
SCA because he wanted to start his new career working for a defense contractor with a 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
       
   
     
      
    
     
   
     
   
 
    
      
     
   
     
        
    
 
       
   
    
 
 
  
    
    
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
    
 
   
  
    
      
 
 
clean slate. He was young and immature in 2018, but understood that the Navy would 
provide a life -changing opportunity for him and that disclosing his substance misuse 
would have made him ineligible to serve in the Navy. He lied to increase his chances of 
successfully enlisting in the Navy. He said his circumstances were different in 2023, he 
was older, wanted a fresh start , and he prepared himself to live with the consequences. 
He disassociated from the environment where he had used drugs , and from friends and 
associates with whom he used drugs. Though his father, brother, and half-sisters still use 
medical marijuana for their diagnosed medical conditions, they live in a different state and 
do not reside with Applicant. (Tr. at 57-77) 
Applicant submitted a statement of intent, swearing to abstain from any future use 
or misuse of any federally illegal drugs. He also submitted a personal statement, and two 
letters of support from colleagues who have work ed with him for about two years. One 
colleague attested to his honesty, reliability, and discretion; and the other attested to his 
trustworthiness, diligence, and sound judgment. Both commented favorably on his work 
ethic, dedication to his professional duties, and favorably endorsed Applicant’s suitability 
for a top secret security clearance. Applicant also provided information about his roles 
and responsibilities in the organization, future plans, and accomplishments. He is 
performing well, taking on new assignments to increase his level of responsibility, and 
continues to grow . He i s grateful for the opportunity to continue serving the nation in a 
unique position. (Statement of Intent dated October 28, 2024; AE B, AE C; Tr. at 99-103) 
Policies  
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines (AG), which became 
effective on June 8, 2017. 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
     
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
   
   
   
 
  
  
 
  
 
    
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
              
    
 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified infor mation. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline H, Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse  
The security concern for drug involvement and substance misuse is described in 
AG ¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual's reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person's ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any "controlled substance" as 
defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in 
this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
AG ¶ 25 describes conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying. Those that are potentially applicable are: 
(a)  any substance misuse (see above definition);  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
      
     
     
 
    
    
  
   
  
 
    
  
 
 
 
       
       
      
    
   
     
 
     
      
 
(b)  testing positive for  an i
 llegal  drug;  
(c)  illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation,  
proc
essing, manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession of  
drug paraphernalia;  and  
(f)  any illegal  drug use while granted access to classified information or  
holding a sensitive position.  
Appli
cant admitted he used, misused, and purchased various cont rolled 
substances, as alleged in the SOR, and his admissions are supported by other evidence 
in the record. Some of his substance misuse occurred while he was in the Navy and in a 
sensitive position. AG ¶¶ 25(a), 25(c), and 25 (f) apply. 
Applicant refuted AG ¶¶ 25(a), 25(b), and 25(c) security concerns for the allegation 
in SOR ¶ 1.j. He was diagnosed with ADHD in late 2023, prescribed the stimulant drug 
Adderall in 2024, and he has taken Adderall in accordance with his prescription since that 
time. Applicant’s authorized use of Adderall resulted in positive urinalysis tests for 
amphetamine in 2024 and 2025. 
AG ¶ 26 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. The following 
are potentially applicable: 
(a)  the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or ha
 ppened  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur  or does not cast  doubt  
on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment; and  
(b)  the individual acknowledges  hi s or her drug involvement and substance  
misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and  
has established a pattern of abstinence, including, but not limited  to:  (1)  
disassociation from drug- using associates  and contacts;  (2) changing or  
avoiding the environment where drugs were used; and  (3) providing a   
signed statement of  intent to abstain from all drug involvement and  
substance misuse, acknowledging that  any future involvement or  misuse is  
grounds  for revocation of national security  eligibility.   
AG ¶
¶ 26(a) and 26(b) are not fully established to mitigate security concerns for 
allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.i. Applicant began using and purchasing marijuana 
and Adderall, not prescribed to him , during high school. He expanded his involvement 
with illegal drugs after enlisting in the Navy in 2018, even though he had been granted a 
security clearance and worked in a sensitive position. He started using hallucinogenic 
psilocybin mushrooms, Ecstasy, and Vyvanse, a stimulant drug prescribed to his nephew. 
To avoid detection by the Navy’s drug testing program, Applicant timed his 
marijuana and Adderall use to occur during his Navy leave periods of 14 days or more . 
He was fully aware that illegal drug involvement was prohibited and a punishable offense 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
   
 
    
        
      
     
    
       
     
 
   
   
 
     
 
   
   
    
    
  
 
    
 
    
   
     
    
    
    
 
    
 
  
     
  
 
  
 
 
  
under the UCMJ. He said that he was willing to take calculated risks to continue his drug 
involvement until he was honorably discharged from the Navy in August 2023. H e used 
marijuana purchased from a state dispensary until January 2024. 
In a recent decision, the Appeal Board noted “the evolving landscape of marijuana 
law and policy in the United States ,” particularly as it relates to the recreational use of 
marijuana when permitted under state laws, and listed common-sense factors to consider 
when evaluating security concerns related to an applicant’s involved with marijuana in 
permissible use jurisdictions. Some of the factors highlighted for consideration include the 
duration of an applicant’s abstinence; the laws of the state involved, the company’s drug 
policy, whether applicant’s use occurred after completing a SCA, while holding a sensitive 
position, or while having access to classified information; and whether applicant broke a 
promise to refrain from using marijuana in the future. See ISCR Case No. 24-00914 at 3 
(App. Bd. April 9, 2025). 
Applicant’s purchase and use of illegal drugs over a period of five years while in a 
sensitive position reflect poor judgment and raise questions about his reliability and 
trustworthiness. He specifically planned his use of marijuana and other drugs to defeat 
the Navy’s drug testing system, and he did. He continued his involvement with illegal 
drugs immediately after leaving the Navy, getting a medical marijuana card in S2 and 
using marijuana for the last time in 2024, after completing his November 2023 SCA, and 
starting his career working for a defense contractor. 
Applicant is credited with acknowledging his illegal drug use, making the decision 
to stop his involvement with illegal drugs in 2024, avoiding the environment where he 
used illegal drugs and the people he used them with, and signing a statement of intent to 
refrain from using illegal drugs in the future. He is also commended for seeking out and 
receiving medical assistance for his mental health concerns. He is on the right path, but 
not enough time has passed to fully mitigate the drug involvement and substance misuse 
security concerns. Doubts remain about his judgment, reliability, and his overall 
willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations. 
Guideline E,  Personal Conduct  
The security concern under this guideline is described in AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to 
provide truthful and candid answers during the security clearance process 
or any other failure to cooperate with the security clearance process. 
AG ¶ 16 describes conditions that could raise a security concern and may 
be disqualifying. The following disqualifying conditions are potentially applicable: 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
    
    
    
   
          
      
 
 
    
  
(a)  deliberate omission, concealment,  or f alsification of relevant facts from  
any personnel  security questionnaire, personal  history  statement,  or similar  
form  used to conduct investigations, determine employment qualifications,  
award benefits or  status, deter mine national security eligibility or  
trustworthiness, or  award fiduciary responsibilities;  
(d)  credible adverse information that is not explicitly  c overed under any  
other  guideline and may not be sufficient by itself for an adverse  
determination,  but which, when combined with all available information,  
supports a whole- person assessment  of questionable judgment,  
untrustworthiness,  unreliability, lack of candor, unwillingness to comply with 
rules and regulations,  or other characteristics indicating that the individual  
may  not properly safeguard classified or  sensitive information.  This  
includes, but is not limited to,  consideration of:  (2) any  disruptive, violent, or  
other  inappropriate behavior;  and ( 3) a pattern of dishonesty  or rule  
violations; and  
(e)  personal conduct,  or c oncealment of information about  one’s conduct,  
that creates  a vulnerability to exploitation,  manipulation,  or duress by a  
foreign intelligence entity  or other individual  or group.  Such conduct  
includes: (1) engaging in activities which, if known, could affect  the person’s  
personal, professional, or community standing.  
App
licant’s admitted involvement with illegal drugs as described in SOR ¶¶ 1.a 
through 1.i created a vulnerability to exploitation, manipulation, or duress as it could affect 
his professional standing. His deliberate failure to disclose his illegal use of marijuana, 
Adderall, and Vyvanse; his deliberate failure to disclose his illegal purchase of marijuana 
and Adderall; and his deliberate misuse of Adderall and Vyvanse, are supported by other 
evidence in the record. AG ¶¶ 16(a) and 16(e) apply. However, AG ¶ 16(d) does not apply 
to SOR ¶ 2.a because the conduct alleged is explicitly covered and alleged under 
Guideline H. 
AG ¶ 17 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. The following 
are potentially applicable: 
(a)  the individual made prompt, good- fai
 th efforts to correct the omission,  
concealment,  or falsification before being confronted with the facts;  
(c) the offense is so minor, or so much time has passed, or the behavior is  
so i
nfrequent, or it happened under such unique circumstances that it is  
unlikely to recur  and  does not cast doubt  on the individual's reliability,  
trustworthiness, or  good judgment; and  
(d)  the individual has acknowledged the behavior and obtained counseling  
to c
hange the behavior or taken other positive steps to alleviate the  
stressors, circumstances, or factors that  contributed to untrustworthy,  
9 
 
 
 
 
 
        
    
     
   
   
    
        
     
 
     
        
 
    
    
   
    
 
   
 
     
     
    
   
   
 
     
 
   
      
   
   
   
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
 
   
unreliable, or  other inappropriate behavior, and such behavior is  unlikely to  
recur.  
AG ¶¶ 17(a), 17(c) and 17(d) are not fully established for the conduct alleged in 
SOR ¶ 2.a. Comments made in Guideline H above also apply here. Applicant is unable 
to mitigate the personal conduct security concerns through his evidence. He misused 
marijuana and Adderall for several years before he served on active duty in the Navy. 
While serving in the Navy, he continued his habit and behavior of using and purchas ing 
marijuana and Adderall as he did in high school. He added hallucinogenic drugs to his 
repertoire of illegal drugs, with the full knowledge and understanding that illegal drug 
involvement violated federal statutes and was punishable under the UCMJ. He also 
deliberately timed his illegal drug involvement in a manner to avoid detection by a drug 
urinalysis test. Applicant’s job responsibilities as a Navy operations specialist required 
him to do consequential work aboard a Navy ship while in a highly sensitive position. 
Applicant’s evidence is insufficient to mitigate personal conduct security concerns 
in SOR ¶ 2.a. He exercised poor judgment by continuing and escalating his involvement 
with illegal drugs while in a sensitive position until August 2023. His conduct created a 
vulnerability to exploitation, manipulation, and duress, which casts doubt on his current 
reliability, trustworthiness and judgment, and demonstrates an unwillingness to comply 
with federal rules and regulations. 
Applicant is credited with acknowledging his illegal drug involvement, seeking and 
receiving help for his mental health concerns, and taking other positive steps to alleviate 
factors that contributed to his inappropriate involvement with illegal drugs alleged in SOR 
¶ 2.a, but his evidence is insufficient to establish any of the above mitigating conditions. 
More time is needed for full mitigation. 
AG ¶ 17(c) is established for the conduct alleged in SOR ¶¶ 2.b through 2.d, for 
Applicant’s falsifications in his March 2018 SCA. He was young, immature, and desperate 
to join the Navy to change the trajectory of his life. H e fully disclosed his past substance 
misuse in his November 2023 SCA, and expressed his desire to “right the wrong” he had 
done by correcting the falsification s going forward. H is demeanor was sincere and 
credible. The behavior happened more than seven years ago under unique 
circumstances that are unlikely to recur. AG ¶ 17(c) applies. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. In applying the whole-
person concept, an administrative judge must evaluate an applicant’s eligibility for a 
security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct and all relevant 
circumstances. An administrative judge should consider the nine adjudicative process 
factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
    
  
 
 
     
 
    
 
  
 
   
 
   
 
  
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
     
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
(1) the nature, extent,  and s eriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.   
I have i
ncorporated my comments under Guidelines H and E in my whole- person 
analysis and applied the adjudicative factors in AG ¶ 2(d). After weighing the disqualifying 
and mitigating conditions under Guidelines H and E, and evaluating all evidence in the 
whole-person context, I conclude Applicant failed to mitigate the security concerns raised 
in this case. 
 Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline H:  
  AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 1.a  –  1.i:  Against  Applicant  
Subparagraphs 1.j:   For Applicant  
Paragraph 2, Guideline E:   AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraph 2.a:   Against  Applicant  
Subparagraph 2.b  –  2.d:  For Applicant  
Conclusion  
It  is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue Applicant’s 
eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Gatha LaFaye 
Administrative Judge 
11 