 
 
  
 
  
        
         
           
             
 
 
  
  
      
   
    
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
   
    
       
     
 
        
 
    
  
     
  
 
   
       
   
  
    
_________
_____ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT
 OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-01113 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Cynthia Ruckno, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
09/29/2025 
Decision 
BENSON, Pamela C., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to mitigate the Guideline J (criminal conduct), Guideline F (financial 
considerations), and Guideline E (personal conduct) security concerns. National security 
eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
  Statement of the Case  
On October 2, 2024, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guidelines J, F, and E. 
The DOD acted under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information 
within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 5220.6, Defense 
Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended 
(Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines implemented by the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
On November 6, 2024, Applicant provided a response to the SOR (Answer). He 
admitted SOR allegations ¶¶ 1. b, 1.c, 2.a (in part), 2.b through 2.e, and 2.i . He denied 
SOR allegations ¶¶ 1.a, 2.f, through 2.h, 2.j, 3.a, and 3.b. 
Applicant requested a hearing before a Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals 
(DOHA) administrative judge. I was assigned this case on April 30, 2025. DOHA issued 
 
      
 
 
  
   
     
   
    
     
 
 
    
    
 
    
 
 
     
  
    
   
    
      
 
  
 
 
 
      
    
  
   
    
    
   
      
 
    
  
  
    
 
 
a not
ice on J
une 3, 2025, scheduling the hearing for July 9, 2025. The hearing proceeded 
as scheduled via online video teleconferencing. 
Department Counsel submitted Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 10. Applicant 
testified and called one witness to testify on his behalf. He did not submit any documents 
before or during the hearing. I held the record open for three weeks so either party could 
supplement the record with additional documentation. Applicant timely submitted an email 
communication that I marked as Applicant’s Exhibit (AE) A. All exhibits were admitted into 
evidence without objection, and the record closed on July 30, 2025. 
 Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 50 years old. He earned an associate’s degree in 2013. He is currently 
married to his third wife, and he has one son, age 10, with special needs. He has served 
approximately 21 years in the military. Beginning in December 1994, he served just over 
11 years active duty with the U.S. Navy. He received an honorable discharge in 
September 2005. That same month Applicant transferred to the Army and served three 
years of active duty. He received an honorable discharge in September 2008. He then 
immediately transferred to the Army Reserves based out of State X, and he received an 
honorable discharge in April 2016. He currently receives 80% disability income from the 
Department of Veteran’s Affairs. (VA) Since May 2022, he works for a government 
contractor doing computer repair earning $28 an hour, which is about $58,240 annually. 
His wife works during the summer months as a housekeeper at a campground, but he is 
unaware of how much income she receives . He currently possesses a DOD security 
clearance. (Tr. 22-25, 40-41; GE 1) 
Criminal Conduct  
SOR ¶ 1. a alleges that between October 2021 and November 2021, Applicant 
stole money from the snack table at his federal government employment. In November 
2021, his security clearance was suspended, and he was initially placed on paid 
administrative leave, and then unpaid suspension by his employer. He chose to resign in 
January 2022 because he could not continue his basic living arrangement without 
receiving a paycheck, and he also suspected his employer was in the process of firing 
him. He did not contest the employer’s actions. At the time he resigned in January 2022, 
he was a GS-9 Step 2 earning about $69,122 annually. (Tr. 25-26, 31-33, 40) 
Applicant testified at the hearing that his employer had security camera footage of 
his contact with different snack tables in the work building. He stated that he was 
exchanging coins for cash. Due to the angles of the security cameras, no one could clearly 
see if he was taking any money or putting any money (coins) back into the cash box. (Tr. 
26) 
2 
 Documentation in the record showed that  on November  3,  2021,  Applicant’s  
employer gave him  a Memorandum entitled “Proposed Suspension of Access to  
Classified Information.” It reported that on November 1, 2021, between the hours  of  6:00  
a.m. to 7:00 a.m.,  approximately $10 in cash went missing from the 7
th  floor “snack shack.”  
 
 
 
   
   
      
   
 
   
   
   
    
  
    
 
    
       
      
   
  
    
 
 
  
     
    
   
  
       
   
  
   
   
 
  
     
   
   
   
     
    
    
  
   
       
 
     
   
  
      
The security camera footage showed at about 6:45 a.m. , Applicant removing something 
from the snack table and putting it into his pocket. The camera footage did not show him 
removing any snacks from the table or placing any cash or coins on the table. No other 
employees interacted with the snack shack during this period of time. During the 
employer’s investigation, a review of past camera footage also showed, on four other 
occasions during the previous month, Applicant placing something in his pocket without 
removing any snacks from the table or putting money on the table. The employee in 
charge of the snack table had suspected money was being taken and also reported to 
security that on October 19, 2021, $10 cash was reported missing. (GE 5; Tr. 27-29) 
Documentation in the record showed that Applicant was initially confronted by his 
employer on November 3, 2021, after $10 was missing from the snack table on November 
1, 2021. The security camera footage showed that he was the only employee who 
interacted with the snack table during the one-hour period of November 1, 2021, when an 
employee later reported that money was missing. Applicant told his employer during the 
November 3, 2021 meeting that he had moved money around different Snack Shacks, 
and the per son(s) in charge of the Snack Shacks were fully aware that he did so. 
Applicant’s claim was refuted by the person(s) in charge of the snack tables . (GE 5 pgs. 
34-35; Tr. 44-47) 
During the hearing Applicant stated that he had been working at a fast -food 
restaurant part time, but he forgot to list this employment on his security clearance 
application. (SCA) This was not alleged in the SOR. He would collect coins over time at 
this job, and then he would exchange the coins for dollar bills at his full -time employer’s 
snack table. On November 1, 2021, he had $11 worth of coins, but when he saw this 
snack table only had one dollar, he left his coins, took the dollar bill, and then went to a 
different snack table, and took the ten dollars as payment in full. When questioned about 
the other occasions the camera footage showed him taking something, putting it in his 
pocket, and walking away without taking a snack or placing money on the table, he stated, 
“I really can't say anything about that … ” Applicant denied stealing any money from the 
snack tables. (Tr. 28-31, 42) 
An email in the record from Applicant dated November 5, 2021, two days later after 
his initial meeting with his employer , told a different story, that I find is inconsistent with 
his previous explanation. The email from Applicant stated that he had brought in $5 of 
change, and when he deposited the coins at the first snack table, there were only three 
$1 dollar bills. He took the three $1 dollar bills and went to a different snack table to 
retrieve two $1 dollar bills for his full reimbursement. He took two (what he thought were 
$1 dollar bills) but were actually $5 bills and walked away. He did not pay close attention 
to the cash that he took from the second snack table. When asked during the hearing 
about discrepancies, Applicant stated that this incident happened a long time ago, and 
that his memory may not be accurate. (GE 5 page 32; Tr 42-43, 47) 
Applicant denied ever receiving his employer’s January 18, 2022 Memorandum 
entitled “Notice of Proposed Removal.” He did admit that he resigned from employment 
after the email was supposedly sent to him . He also noted that he had previously stated 
during the hearing that he was “pretty certain” his employer was going to fire him, but he 
3 
 
 
 
     
 
    
   
      
    
  
    
      
 
 
   
     
     
      
     
   
    
 
 
    
   
 
    
    
   
    
 
 
 
      
 
   
     
  
  
 
        
      
     
   
   
    
     
        
did not elaborate how he came to this conclusion without previously receiving the 
proposed removal notice from his employer. (GE 5 pg. 34; Tr. 44-48) 
SOR ¶ 1.b alleges that in about 2016, Applicant embezzled or stole approximately 
$600 from a national department store where he worked as a cashier. Applicant admitted 
this allegation. He testified that at the time the VA was withholding his disability money 
from his reserve time, and it caused him to suffer financially. He admitted he took $20 
from the cash register from time to time, but if the store determined he had taken a total 
of $600, he would not dispute it. He was caught stealing on security cameras and he was 
fired by his employer. He did not repay the $600 he stole from his employer. (Tr. 34-38, 
41) 
In about 2013, Applicant was arrested for breach of peace. (SOR ¶ 1.c) He stated 
that on that night, he got into an argument with his wife. She was trying to drive to the bar 
and get drunk. He stated, “I elected to take her keys … to prevent her from …getting 
another DUI.” She approached him to retrieve her car keys, and he pushed her away. He 
was arrested by the police and charged with breach of peace for pushing his wife away. 
Applicant and his wife have now learned to control their tempers and have also found 
alternative methods to cool-off after they have a disagreement. (Tr. 38-39) 
Personal Conduct  
Applicant falsified material facts on a SCA executed by him on April 18, 2022. He 
was to “provide a detailed entry for each of [his] employment activities for the last 5 years. 
[He] should list all full-time work, part-time work, military service, temporary military duty 
locations over 90 days, self -employment, other paid work, and all periods of 
unemployment. The entire 5-year period must be accounted for without breaks.” Applicant 
intentionally failed to list his employment with a government contractor where he was 
employed from June 2018 until he resigned from employment in January 2022, after he 
was suspended without pay in December 2021 for stealing money from snack tables. 
(SOR ¶ 3.b) 
Applicant claimed during the hearing that he did not recall filling out this SCA even 
though the paperwork showed that he digitally signed the SCA on April 18, 2022. It is 
important to note that the April 2022 SCA was for a position of trust with the government, 
(SF-85 Format), and not for access to classified information. He speculated there was a 
possibility the 2022 SCA was created after information from an old er SCA he completed 
was somehow automatically prepopulated in the 2022 SCA, or that another government 
contractor created the SCA and forged his digital signature. Department Counsel pointed 
out that he had moved to a new residence in 2018, and that new address was listed on 
his April 22, 2022 SCA. The SCA he completed in 2017 showed his old home address, 
and the new address information listed in the 2022 SCA had to have been input by him. 
Applicant continued to deny he had created the April 2022 SCA. He also denied that he 
intentionally left off his most recent employer from the application in an effort to avoid a 
new employer asking him why he had left this employment. Applicant agreed that he may 
have partially filled out the SCA, signed it, and turned it in uncompleted, but as of the day 
of the hearing, he could not recall taking that action. (GE 2, 3; Tr. 16-19, 78-92) 
4 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
    
    
    
 
 
     
   
     
    
     
 
      
     
    
  
  
    
 
 
     
    
    
    
  
    
 
   
  
    
   
    
  
  
   
    
   
S
OR ¶ 3.a cross alleged the employment embezzlement and theft allegations in 
subparagraphs 1.a and 1.b. 
Financial  
 SOR ¶ 2 .b alleges  Applicant is indebted for  a judgment  obtained against  him in  
about July 2023 in the amount  of about  $6,968. Applicant admitted this was for two loans  
he took out  that were consolidated into one loan.  After the judgment  was entered against  
him, he has not  made any payments  on this  debt. This debt remains unsatisfied. (Tr. 49-
58)  
Applicant has nine delinquent debts alleged in the SOR that total approximately 
$58,641. He testified during the hearing that his wife is the one who handles all of their 
finances. She testified as a witness on his behalf. (Tr. 49-50, 71) 
SOR ¶ 2.c alleges Applicant is indebted on a car loan that has been charged off in 
about August 2020 in the approximate amount of $41,499. Applicant admitted he still 
possessed the car, but that he has not made any payments on the delinquent account 
after it closed in May 2021. A July 8, 2025, credit report reflected the current balance as 
$44,949. This debt remains unresolved. (GE 10; Tr. 58-62) 
SOR ¶ 2. d alleges Applicant is indebted to a collection agency in the amount of 
approximately $1,316 for an unpaid account. The account was closed by Applicant and 
his wife, and the equipment was returned to the creditor. They believed the creditor never 
updated their account with the returned equipment. The record was held open for three 
weeks and Applicant stated he would obtain paperwork to support his testimony. No 
documentation was provided by Applicant while the record was held open, and this debt 
remains unresolved. (Tr. 62-63) 
SOR ¶ 2. e alleges Applicant is indebted for unpaid utilities in the approximate 
amount of $174 that was referred for collection. Applicant and his wife stated that they 
had paid off this debt, but the creditor failed to update their account. The record was held 
open for three weeks and Applicant stated he would obtain paperwork to support his 
testimony. No documentation was provided by Applicant while the record was held open, 
and this debt remains unresolved. (Tr. 63-64) 
SOR ¶ 2. f alleges Applicant is indebted to a collection agency for an unpaid 
account in the approximate amount of $5,742. He did not recognize the account, but 
Department Counsel provided information to him about the original creditor. He stated 
that he was going to look into this account and provide updated information while the 
record was held open. No documentation was provided by Applicant while the record was 
held open, and this debt remains unresolved. (Tr. 64) 
SOR ¶ 2. g alleges Applicant is indebted to a collection agency for an unpaid 
account in the approximate amount of $ 205. Applicant denied this debt and claimed to 
have disputed this account. He stated that it no longer shows up on his credit report, and 
5 
 
 
  
      
  
 
   
     
    
    
 
 
    
     
 
   
     
 
   
  
  
    
 
 
    
    
     
   
      
    
    
   
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
he does not know whether his dispute required the account to be removed, or the account 
just fell off of the credit report due to age. No documentation was provided by Applicant 
while the record was held open, and this debt remains unresolved. (Tr. 65-66) 
SOR ¶ 2. h alleges Applicant is indebted to a collection agency for an unpaid 
account in the approximate amount of $1,256. Applicant denied this debt and does not 
have any knowledge about this account. Applicant said he would look into this account. 
No documentation was provided by Applicant while the record was held open, and this 
debt remains unresolved. (Tr. 66-67) 
SOR ¶ 2. i alleges Applicant is indebted to a national department store for an 
account that was charged off in the approximate amount of $561. Applicant admitted this 
debt was legitimate, and he and his wife did not know what the current status was of this 
account. He stated that would look into this matter. No documentation was provided by 
Applicant while the record was held open, and this debt remains unresolved. (Tr. 67) 
SOR ¶ 2. j alleges Applicant is indebted on a bank credit card referred to a 
collection agency in the approximate amount of $920 . Applicant denied this debt but 
during the hearing found that this debt originated with his wife. No documentation was 
provided by Applicant while the record was held open, and this debt remains unresolved. 
(Tr. 67-68) 
Applicant’s wife testified that their current financial situation was stable. They may 
not always pay the bills by the due date, but they try to get them paid by the end of the 
month. The reason they are unable to timely pay the bills is from “having a special needs 
child and a lot of things now are falling outside of insurance that [they] are now having to 
pay out of pocket that [their] son cannot go without.” He has been diagnosed with attention 
deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and autism. She testified that their total monthly net 
income was about $6,226. She estimated that the out -of-pocket expenses for their son 
runs approximately $1,250 per month. (Tr. 71-77) 
SOR ¶ 2 .a cross alleged the employment embezzlement and theft allegations in 
subparagraphs 1.a and 1.b. 
On July 28, 2025, Applicant sent an email communication post hearing while the 
record was held open, which read: 
As a response to the request for further  paperwork, we no longer have  
paperwork clearing some of these bills due to the age of the bills. I have  
added my wife to this for  further clarification,  and updates  as she has been  
the one handling the finances of the household.  (AE A)  
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
    
  
    
      
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
   
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
   
 
  
  
 
   
    
    
   
 
                 
 
 
  
 
 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for access to classified 
information will be resolved in favor of national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. Likewise, I have not drawn inferences grounded on mere 
speculation or conjecture. 
Directive ¶ E3.1.14 requires the Government to present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified infor mation. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of Executive Order 10865 provides that decisions shall be “in terms of 
the national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
  Analysis  
Guideline J: Criminal Conduct  
The security concern related to the criminal conduct guideline is set out in AG ¶ 
30: 
7 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
 
    
 
    
 
    
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
  
    
   
 
    
     
 
 
 
    
 
 
Criminal activity creates doubt  about a person's judgment, reliability, and  
trustworthiness. By its very nature, it calls into question a person’s ability or  
willingness to comply  with laws, rules,  and regulations.  
AG ¶ 31 lists conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying. These potentially apply: 
(a) a pattern of  mi
 nor offenses, any  one of which on its own would be  
unlikely to affect a  national security eligibility decision, but which in  
combination cast doubt  on the individual's judgment, reliability, or  
trustworthiness; and  
(b) evi
dence (including, but not limited to, a credible allegation, an 
admission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of 
whether the individual was formally charged, prosecuted, or convicted. 
The record evidence and Applicant’s admissions establish AG ¶¶ 31(a) and 31(b). 
Applicant was involved in 2021 thefts which resulted in him resigning from employment 
in January 2022, a 2016 embezzlement, and a 2013 breach of peace arrest. 
AG ¶ 32 lists two conditions that could mitigate the security concerns: 
(a) so much time has  el
 apsed since the criminal behavior happened, or it  
happened under such unusual circumstances, that it is unlikely to recur and  
does not cast doubt on the individual's reliability, trustworthiness,  or good  
judgment; and  
(d) ther
e is evidence of successful rehabilitation; including, but not limited 
to, the passage of time without recurrence of criminal activity, restitution, 
compliance with the terms of parole or probation, job training or higher 
education, good employment record, or constructive community 
involvement. 
Applicant has been twice involved in criminal conduct involving dishonesty . He 
stole approximately $600 from his employer in 2016, and in 2021, after his former 
employer conducted an investigation following allegations of money missing from snack 
tables throughout the work building, Applicant was found responsible for theft of money. 
He admitted embezzling the $600 from a previous employer, but he denied he was 
involved in the thefts of money missing from the snack tables. Applicant did not challenge 
his employer’s findings that he was involved in thefts of money on more than one 
occasion. He resigned from employment before he was terminated for his misconduct. 
He provided inconsistent statements about what happened, but what is most concerning 
is that when he was initially questioned by his employer about missing funds, he did not 
state that he had provided coins at the snack tables and then retrieved dollar bills for fair 
reimbursement. His inconsistent statements has placed his credibility in question. 
8 
 
 
    
 
   
  
  
    
     
 
  
 
   
   
 
 
     
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
   
 
     
   
 
 
  
     
 
The DOHA Appeal Board has noted that an employer’s conclusions 
following an internal investigation are entitled to some deference. ISCR Case No. 
18-00496 at 4 (App. Bd. Nov. 8, 2019). None of the mitigating conditions listed 
above apply. I do not find evidence of successful rehabilitation; he has not 
established that the conduct is unlikely to recur; and it continues to cast doubt on 
Applicant’s reliability, trustworthiness, and good judgment. AG ¶¶ 32(a) and 32(d) 
are not applicable. Criminal conduct security concerns are not mitigated. 
Guideline F:  Financial Considerations   
The security concerns relating to the guideline for financial considerations are set 
out in AG ¶ 18, which reads in pertinent part: 
Failure to live within one’s means, satisfy debts,  and meet financial  
obligations may  indicate poor  self-control, lack of judgment, or  
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise  
questions about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to  
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial  distress can  also be  
caused or exacerbated by,  and thus can be a possible indicator of, other  
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling,  mental  
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An  
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to  
engage in illegal  or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds.  
The facts of this case establish the following potentially disqualifying conditions set 
forth in AG ¶ 19: 
(a) inability to satisfy  d
 ebts;  
(c)  a history of not  me eting financial obligations;  and  
(d) decepti
ve or illegal financial practices such as embezzlement, employee 
theft, check fraud, expense account fraud…and other intentional financial 
breaches of trust. 
Applicant’s admissions and the record evidence support the potential disqualifying 
conditions set forth above. The burden, therefore, shifts to Applicant to mitigate security 
concerns under Guideline F. 
The guideline includes the following conditions in AG ¶ 20 that can potentially 
mitigate security concerns arising from Applicant’s financial history: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred 
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does not cast doubt 
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment; 
9 
 
 
 
 
   
                                  
   
 
 
     
  
     
     
  
   
     
 
     
     
    
  
 
 
    
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
     
  
  
   
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial  probl em were largely beyond  
the person’s control  (e.g., loss of employment, a business  downturn,  
unexpected medical emergency, or a death, divorce or separation, clear  
victimization by  predatory  lending practices, or identity theft), and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;   
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- fai th effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  and   
(e) the individual has a reasonable basis to dispute the legitimacy of the 
past-due debt which is the cause of the problem and provides documented 
proof to substantiate the basis of the dispute or provides evidence of actions 
to resolve the issue. 
Applicant’s delinquent debts are numerous, extend over a substantial time period, 
and there is insufficient evidence in the record to show they are in the process of being 
resolved or currently paid. Information in the record showed that recently , Applicant’s 
medical insurance has not completely covered the expenses necessary to treat his 
special needs son, which is a circumstance beyond his control. After reviewing the 
delinquent dets, however, I found that numerous accounts were delinquent several years 
ago, and very little action, if any, has been made to remedy these unpaid accounts. He 
has also engaged in illegal practices, such as theft and embezzlement, to generate funds, 
which is a troubling breach of his fiduciary duty to his employers . Applicant’s lapse in 
taking responsible action sooner by resolving his delinquent debts also cast doubt on his 
current reliability, trustworthiness, and good judgment. Financial considerations security 
concerns are not mitigated. 
Guideline E: Personal Conduct  
AG ¶ 15 expresses the security concern for personal conduct: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or  
unwillingness  to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions  
about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect  
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is  any failure to  
provide truthful  and candid answers during national security investigative or  
adjudicative processes. …  
AG ¶ 16 describes conditions that could raise a security concern and be 
disqualifying. The following are potentially applicable under the established facts in this 
case: 
(a) deliberate omission, concealment, or falsification of relevant facts from 
any personnel security questionnaire, personal history statement, or similar 
form used to conduct investigations, determine employment qualifications, 
award benefits or status, determine national security eligibility or 
trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities; and 
10 
 
 
 
  
    
     
  
 
  
  
                                                                                                  
 
 
     
    
   
   
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
     
 
   
 
        
    
  
  
  
  
      
    
(d) credible adverse information that is not explicitly covered under any 
other  guideline and may not be sufficient by  itself  for  an adverse 
determination,  but which, when combined with all available information, 
supports a whole- person assessment of questionable judgment, 
untrustworthiness, unreliability, lack of candor, unwillingness to comply with 
rules and regulations, or other characteristics indicating that the individual 
may not properly safeguard classified or sensitive information. This includes 
but is not limited to, consideration of: 
(3) a pattern of  di
 shonesty or rule violations.   
The r
ecord contains evidence of Applicant’s falsification on an April 2022 SCA. His 
claim that he did not complete this SCA holds little weight due to my credibility 
assessment of Applicant. Applicant’s theft from two previous employers shows a pattern 
of dishonesty and rule violations. The disqualifying conditions listed above apply. 
The guideline also includes conditions that could mitigate security concerns arising 
from personal conduct. The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 17 are potentially 
applicable: 
(a) the individual  m
 ade prompt,  good-faith efforts to correct the omission,  
concealment,  or falsification before being confronted with the facts;  
(c) the offense is so minor or so much time has passed, or the behavior is  
s
o infrequent, or happened under such unique circumstances that it is  
unlikely to recur  and  does not cast doubt  on the individual’s reliability,  
trustworthiness, or  good judgment; and  
(d) the i
ndividual acknowledged the behavior and obtained counseling to 
change the behavior or taken other positive steps to alleviate the stressors, 
circumstances, or factors that contributed to untrustworthy, unreliable, or 
other inappropriate behavior, and such behavior is unlikely to recur. 
I have given deference to Applicant's previous employers’ internal investigations 
and characterization of events in these proceedings. I also find the inconsistent and self-
serving statements made by Applicant undercut his credibility. 
Applicant has a pattern of deceptive misconduct, and he did not learn a lesson 
from his poor decision to embezzle from his employer in 2016. He also intentionally 
omitted his employment from an April 2022 SCA because he did not want a potential 
employer to discover the circumstances of his January 2022 resignation from that 
employer. He has shown by his pattern of deception that his personal interests receive 
priority above everything else. When considering his behavior as a whole and his refusal 
to accept responsibility for all of his actions, I am unable to conclude that his misconduct 
is unlikely to recur. His history of misconduct reflects questionable judgment, unreliability, 
11 
 
 
 
       
 
 
  
 
    
   
 
      
   
  
 
 
     
  
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
  
  
     
 
           
 
     
 
    
 
   
 
   
 
            
 
and an u
nwillingness to comply with rules and regulations. The above mitigating 
conditions are not applicable. Personal Conduct security concerns are not mitigated. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and s
 eriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under A
G ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration of 
the guidelines and the whole- person concept. I considered the potentially disqualifying 
and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances surrounding this case. 
I have incorporated my comments under Guidelines J, F, and E and the AG ¶ 2(d) factors 
in this whole-person analysis. 
The Federal government must be able to repose a high degree of trust and 
confidence in persons granted access to classified information. In deciding whether to 
grant or continue access to classified information, the Federal government can take into 
account facts and circumstances of an applicant's personal life that shed light on the 
person's judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness. 
Considering the evidence as a whole, I find Applicant has not carried his burden 
of showing that it is clearly consistent with the interests of national security of the United 
States to grant or continue his eligibility for access to classified information. 
 Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  Guideline J:  AGAINST APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 1.a through 1.c:  Against Applicant  
 P
aragraph 2,  Guideline F:  AGAI
NST APPLICANT  
12 
 
 
   
  
   
 
   
 
                
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
         
    
            
                                                                
Subparagraphs  2.a through 2.j:  Against Applicant  
Paragraph 3, Guideline E:  AGAINST APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  3.a and 3.b:  Against Applicant  
 Conclusion  
In light
 of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, I conclude 
that it is not clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant or continue 
Applicant’s national security eligibility. Eligibility for access to classified information is 
denied. 
Pamela C. Benson 
Administrative Judge 
13 