 
 
 
                      
                                        
    DEPARTMENT  OF DEFENSE  
     DEFENSE  OFFICE OF HEARINGS  AND APPEALS         
          
             
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
       
                                                             
 
 
  
 
   
    
      
 
 
    
    
    
  
    
 
   
     
  
       
  
 
      
 
__________ 
__________ 
In  the matter  of:  )  
 )  
                                                            )             ISCR Case No. 24-00914  
                                                            )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance  )  
 
Appearances  
For Government: Tara Karoian, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
04/30/2025 
Decision  on Remand  
WESLEY, ROGER C. Administrative Judge 
Based upon a review of the case file, pleadings, and exhibits, A pplicant did not 
mitigate drug involvement and substance abuse concerns. Eligibility f or access to 
classified information or to hold a sensitive position is denied.  
Statement of the Case  
On August 12, 202 4, the Defense Counterintelligence Security Agency DCSA) 
Consolidated Adjudications Service (CAS) issued a statement of reasons (SOR) to 
Applicant detailing reasons why under the drug involvement and substance misuse 
guideline th e D SCA CAS could not make the preliminary affirmative determination of 
eligibility for granting a security clearance, and recommended referral to an 
administrative judge to determine whether a security clearance should be granted, 
continued, denied, or revoked. The action was taken under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 
10865, Safeguarding Cl assified I nformation within Industry (February 20, 1960); 
Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program , Department of 
Defense (DoD) Directive 5220.6 (January 2, 1992) (Directive); and Security Executive 
Agent Directive 4, establishing in Appendix A the National Security Adjudicative 
Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Inform ation or Eligibility to 
Hold a Sensitive Position (AGs), effective June 8, 2017. 
1 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
   
 
  
   
 
    
    
   
 
 
     
  
   
  
  
   
     
   
 
       
    
  
   
 
  
     
 
         
Applicant responded to the SOR on August 18, 2024, and requested his case be 
decided on the written record. The case was assigned to me on January 2, 2025 . 
Applicant received the File of Relevant Material (FORM) on November 1, 2024 , and 
was instructed to file any objections to the FORM or supply additional information for 
consideration within 30 days of receipt. 
Applicant timely responded to the FORM with a letter clarification of his 
interrogatory response. The Government’s exhibits (Items 1- 4) were admitted without 
objection. Applicant’s post-FORM letter submission was admitted as Item 5. 
Summary  of Pleadings  
Under Guideline H, Applicant allegedly (a) used marijuana from about January 
2016 until at least July 2023, with varying frequency; (b) used LSD from about 
December 2018 until at least January 2020, with varying frequency; (c ) used psilocybin 
mushrooms from about December 2018 until at least January 2020, with varying 
frequency; (d) used cocaine from about November 2020 until at  least January 2021, 
with varying frequency; (e) used prescription medication Adderall that was not 
prescribed for him from about May 2018 until at least December 2022; and (f) 
purchased marijuana from about January 2016 until at least December 2022. 
In Applicant’s response to the SOR, he admitted each of the allegations covered 
by SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.f with explanations and clarifications. He claimed he has not 
used marijuana since July 2023 and has taken other positive steps to overcome this 
problem (inclusive of disassociating with friends and acquaintances who encourage 
drug-using behaviors) . He claimed, too, to have recently bought a house with his 
fiancée, which has helped to distance himself from his drug-using acquaintances. And, 
he claimed his previous choices to use drugs are not reflective of where he is today. 
   Issuance of Remand  
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
      
  
   
 
                                                                                                               
 
     
    
O
n April 9, 2025, the Appeal Board issued a remand. In its remand, the Appeal 
Board issued instructions to consider relevant evidence, relevant factors, and important 
aspects of the case. The Board also instructed me t o articulate a satisfactory 
explanation for my conclusions. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 27-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security 
clearance. The admitted allegations are incorporated and adopted as r elevant and 
material findings. Additional findings follow. 
Background      
Applicant has never married into a civil marriage but has cohabited with another 
person since May 2021. ( Item 3) H e earned a high school diploma in June 2016 and 
2 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
   
  
 
  
 
     
 
 
 
 
  
    
     
     
  
 
  
 
   
    
      
   
   
    
 
  
 
      
   
     
 
    
     
  
 
     
     
     
attended college classes in 2017 without earning a degree or diploma. (Item 3) He 
reported no military service. 
Since September 2023, Applicant has worked for his current sponsoring 
employer. (Item 4) Previously, he worked for other employers in various jobs. ( Item 3) 
He has never held a security clearance. (Item 3) 
Applicant’s  drug history  
Between January 2016 and July 2023,  Applicant  purchased an d used marijuana  
with varying frequency  in social settings with friends. (Applicant’s response and Items 3-
4) He used  marijuana generally for relaxation purposes and relief from lower  back  pain.  
(Item 4) Between 2016 and early 2022,  “he was a heavy cannabis user” with 
acknowledged daily usage (sometimes  multiple times a day)  during  these years. (Items  
3-4) Whether the amount  of  marijuana he possessed in his home at any  time  after July  
2021 exceeded one ounce is unknown from the evidence presented in the record.  
Whether he used or shared any of  his possessed marijuana outside of  his ho me 
following  his state’s  legalization of the drug in July 2021 is unclear.  
Applicant reduced his marijuana intake between 2021 and June 2023 out of 
concern for how it was affecting him mentally and physically . To satisfy his personal 
marijuana needs (while lacking a medical cannabis license), he purchased the 
substance monthly (typically 3.5 grams per week) from a local dealer between August 
2018 and December 2022. (Items 3- 4) Applicant ceased using marijuana altogether in 
July 2023, two months before he completed his electronics questionnaires for 
investigations processing (e-QIP) in September 2023. (Item 3) 
Applicant’s oldest brother (a daily marijuana user), who Applicant hosted in his 
home between December 2023 and August 2024 while his brother was on a job 
contract, typically used marijuana around him (if not “in my presence’) outside of his 
home. (Items 3 -5) Applicant assured in his interrogatory responses that his brother 
never used marijuana inside the home. (Items 4 and 5) Applicant assured, too, in his 
post-FORM letter submission that his brother no longer resides in his home. (Item 5) 
Applicant’s assurances of discontinued marijuana involvement and association with his 
oldest brother are both plausible and credible and are accepted. 
Between 2018 and 2021, Applicant used other drugs as well. (Item 4) 
Specifically, he used psilocybin mushrooms from December 2018 to January 2020 on 
approximately 20 occasions. (Item 4) He obtained the mushrooms from friends in social 
situations. He also used cocaine (on three occasions) between November 2020 and 
January 2021 and non -prescribed medications (Adderall ) on three occasions between 
May 2018 and June 2018 that had been provided him by a former classmate or 
coworker. (Item 4) 
Applicant has not engaged in any recurrent use of these cited other drugs and 
assured that he has no intention of using illegal drugs in the future. (Items 2 and 4-5) He 
has never test ed positive for illegal drugs in his system and has never pursued drug 
3 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
  
 
  
     
 
  
 
  
     
  
    
   
     
 
                                                           
counseling. (Items 2 and 4) In his signed statement of intent (dated August 18, 2024), 
he acknowledged the past irresponsible choices he made in using illegal drugs and 
committed to distancing himself from drug- using associates and contacts and remov ing 
himself from the environment where drugs were used. (Item 2) Acknowledging a lapse 
in judgment in using illegal drugs and allowing his brother to stay with him, he has 
committed to making “significant efforts to improve his life.” (Item 5) 
In addition to avoiding any illegal drugs since July 2023 (a period o f over 16 
months), he has revaluated his associations and has distanced himself from his brother 
and many of his friends. (Item 5) Most importantly, he committed himself to maintaining 
the highest standards of integrity “going forward.” (Item 5) Applicant never denied his 
awareness at all relevant times that the drugs he was using were illegal under federal 
and state law. (Items 2, 4, and 5) 
   Policies  
 
 
      
     
   
  
  
    
      
 
              
   
   
  
   
 
   
 
  
     
 
  
   
   
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
By
 virtue of the jurisprudential principles recognized by the U.S. Supreme Court in 
Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988), “no one has a ‘right’ to a 
security clearance.” As Commander in Chief, “the President has the authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual 
is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information. ” Id. at 527. Eligibility for 
access to classified information may only be granted “ upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so. ” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding Classified 
Information within Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the a pplicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge’ s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial , and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The AGs list guidelines to be considered by judges in the decision- making 
process covering DOHA cases. These AG guidelines take into account factors that 
could create a potential conflict of interest for the individual applicant, as well as 
considerations that could affect the individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified information. The AG guidelines include conditions that could raise a 
security concern and may be disqualifying (disqualifying conditions), if any, and all of 
the conditions that could mitigate security concerns, if any. 
These guidelines must be considered before deciding whether or not a security 
clearance should be granted, continued, or denied. Although, the guidelines do not 
require judges to place exclusive reliance on the enumerated disqualifying and 
mitigating conditions in the guidelines in arriving at a decision. 
4 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
     
  
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to the relevant AGs, judges must take into account the pertinent 
considerations for assessing extenuation and mitigation set forth in ¶ 2(a) of the AGs, 
which are intended to assist the judges in reaching a fair and impartial, commonsense 
decision based on a careful consideration of the pertinent guidelines within the context 
of the whole person. The adjudicative process is designed to examine a sufficient period 
of an applicant’s life to enable predictive judgments to be made about whether the 
applicant is an acceptable security risk. 
When evaluating an applicant’s conduct, the relevant guidelines are to be 
considered together with the following ¶ 2(d) factor s: ( 1) the nature, extent, and 
seriousness of the conduct; (2) the circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include 
knowledgeable participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to which 
participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation and other 
permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation of the conduct; (8) the potential for 
pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the likelihood of continuation or 
recurrence. 
Viewing the issues raised and evidence as a whole, the following individual 
guidelines are pertinent herein: 
  Drug Involvement  
 
            
  
  
   
 
    
  
    
   
    
 
 
                                           
The C
oncern: The illegal use of controlled substances, to include 
the misuse of prescription drugs, and the use of other substances that 
cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because  such behavior 
may lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, 
rules, and regulations. Controlled substance means any “controlled 
substance” as defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic 
term adopted in this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed 
above. 
  
Burdens  of Proof  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
    
 
 
  
The Gov
ernment reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. 
Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk the a pplicant 
may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. Such decisions 
entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation about potential, rather than 
actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Clearance decisions must be “ in 
terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty 
5 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
       
   
 
     
   
     
        
   
    
   
  
            
 
 
    
     
 
       
  
  
  
 
  
 
     
        
   
  
   
      
    
 
 
     
                        
 
    
of the applicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 § 7. See also Exec. Or. 12968 (Aug. 
2, 1995), § 3.1. 
Initially, the  G overnment must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in  
the per sonal  or professional history of  the a pplicant that may disqualify the  a pplicant  
from being eligible for  access  to classified information. The  Government has  the burden  
of establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR.  See  Egan, 484 U.S. 518,  531, 
supra. “Substantial evidence”  is  “more than  a scintilla but less than a preponderance. ”   
See v. Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4 th  Cir. 1994). The  
guidelines presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any  
of the criteria listed therein and an  applicant’s security suitability.  See  ISCR Case No.  
95-0611 at 2 (App. Bd. May 2,  1996).   
O
nce the Government establishes a disqualifying condition by substantial 
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it 
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue his [or her] security 
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01 -20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). The burden of 
disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the G overnment. See ISCR Case No. 
02-31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, 
if they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S 518, 531; supra; see AG ¶ 2(b). 
Analysis  
Security concerns are raised over Applicant’s lengthy history of use and 
purchases of federally illegal marijuana and other illegal drugs and non- prescribed 
prescription drugs . Considered together, Applicant’s involvement with illegal drugs 
raises security concerns over whether his use of these illegal drugs reflect actions 
incompatible with the good judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness requirements for 
gaining access to classified information. 
Drug involvement concerns  
Applicant resides in a state that in July 2020 decriminalized marijuana 
possession and legalized adult recreational use of the substance in July 2021 (up to 
one ounce of marijuana) for personal use in the user’s private residence. See Code 
Ann. § 18.250.1 (2020) and Code Ann. Title 4.1, Ch. 16, et seq . (July 2021) of 
Applicant’s state of residence for more details of the statute’s legislative coverage. Any 
marijuana possessed by Applicant after the state- approved date that exceeds the one 
ounce threshold remains illegal. Possessing more than four ounces of marijuana is 
subject to a civil penalty of up to $25. See Id. Possessing more than an ounce of 
marijuana (but not more than a pound) is a Class 3 misdemeanor for a first offense and 
a class 2 misdemeanor for a second offense. 
Between January 2016 and at least July 2023, Applicant purchased and used 
marijuana with varying frequency in social settings with friends for relaxation purposes 
and relief from lower back pain. He admitted to using other drugs ( LSD, psilocybin 
6 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
   
   
  
 
    
   
   
  
   
  
   
  
      
  
     
  
  
 
     
    
    
  
    
    
 
       
    
   
    
     
    
    
 
    
  
  
 
 
    
 
   
  
   
   
 
   
 
mushrooms, cocaine, and non-prescribed Adderall) that are banned under both f ederal 
and state law. Findings on Applicant’s use of these drugs are not disputed in the Appeal 
Board’s remand order. 
Applicant’s admissions to possessing and using illegal drugs raise security 
concerns over judgment and risks of recurrence . On the strength of the evidence 
presented, two disqualifying conditions (DCs) of the AGs for drug involvement apply to 
Applicant’s situation: DC ¶¶ 25(a), ”any substance misuse ” and 25(c), “illegal 
possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation, processing, manufacture, 
purchase, sale, or distribution; or possession of Illegal drugs or drug paraphernalia.” 
Both marijuana and the other illegal drugs covered by the SOR are federally 
banned by the Controlled Substance Act of 1970, 21 U.S.C., §§ 801, et seq. (signed 
into law by President Richard Nixon in 1970) (hereinafter CSA). The Act established five 
schedules of controlled substances as follows: Schedules I II, III, IV, and V. The CSA 
makes no accommodations for state- approved marijuana recreational possession and 
use where federal interests are asserted or involved. 
Drugs covered by Schedule I of the CSA are those considered to have a high 
potential for abuse and include marijuana, LSD, and psilocybin mus hrooms. None of 
these scheduled drugs are considered to have any currently accepted medical use. As 
a result, marijuana and other Schedule I drugs are subject to the most stringent controls 
among drugs covered by the CSA. See Legal Effect of Marijuana Rescheduling on 
FDA’s Regulation of Cannabis, Cong. Research Serv. at 2 (2024). 
While substances covered by Schedule II (inclusive of cocaine) are considered 
to have a high potential for abuse and dependence, unlike Schedule I drugs, they do 
have an accepted medical use and may be lawfully prescribed (assuming other federal 
legal requirements are satisfied) . See id. Schedule III , by contrast, covers drugs and 
substances that have a potential for abuse less than the drugs or other substances in 
Schedules I and II and also have an accepted medical use. Schedule III drugs include 
unprescribed Adderall. See 21 U.S.C § 812. 
Violations of any of the provisions of the CSA carry potentially serious penalties. 
Nothing in the CSA can be read to provide any explicit or implicit exception for state 
laws approving the recreational possession and use of marijuana (a Schedule I drug) 
where a federal interest or priority is asserted. 
Where state laws decriminalize and legitimate the recreational use of marijuana 
(as in A pplicant’s state of residence), they risk federal preemption by the CSA. See  
Gonzales v. Reich, 545 U.S. 1, 6 -11 (2005) . Reich endorsed Congress’ ability to 
regulate activities within states that are not economic in nature. Extended powers 
included the policing of activities within states that have d ecriminalized marijuana 
involvement. Id., 6-17. 
What the Reich holding means is that the Federal Government (acting through 
the Commerce Clause of the Constitution) can criminalize the production and 
7 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
    
   
  
       
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
     
   
 
  
 
    
 
   
    
     
     
     
  
 
   
   
  
  
  
      
  
 
 
  
 
      
     
   
   
   
   
    
   
 
possession of marijuana, even when the state impacted (as here) maintains laws that 
allow the possession and use of marijuana for both medicinal and recreational use 
purposes, along with the purchase of marijuana for the personal use of the user. And 
so, while Reich did not completely ban state-level medicinal cannabis laws, it confirmed 
the Federal Government’s power to enforce the bans of marijuana possession, even in 
cases where such enforcement conflicts with overlapping state laws (as here, to a 
limited extent)). 
Providing further clarification on the application of federal law to persons seeking 
access to classified information, the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) issued a 
memorandum in December 2021 confirming the relevance of federal law for persons 
seeking access to classified information or eligibility to hold a sensitive position without 
making federal law determinative to eligibility determinations. See Memorandum ES 
2021-01529, Security Executive Agent Clarifying Guidance Concerning Marijuana for 
Agencies Conducting Adjudications of Persons Proposed for Eligibility for Access to 
Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position.  
Neither Reich nor the DNI’s 2021 Memorandum clarifying the application of 
federal  law to security clearance adjudications afford much room for accommodations 
of state law s decriminalizing and legitimating marijuana activity. Without any cited 
persuasive reasons for deviating from the application of federal law to Applicant’s 
marijuana possession and purchases in his state of residence, application of federal law 
and policy remains both relevant and determinative for assessing the extent of his 
marijuana possession during his admitted years of possession, use, and purchases . 
See id. 
In its remand assessment of my analysis of Applicant’s polysubstance abuse, the 
Board stressed the importance of a dual track analysis in distinguishing Applicant’s 
legalized marijuana drug involvement (both use and purchases) under state law from 
his past use of other drugs banned by both state and federal law. (Appeal Board 
Decision, at 4) Of special importance in the Board’s analysis were the comparative 
dates of Applicant’s frequency and recency of his possession, usage, and purchases of 
marijuana vis-à-vis the other drugs covered by the SOR. Comparative figures 
differentiated his cycle of marijuana usage between 2016 and July 2023 ( the accepted 
cessation date) and his cycle of usage of other illegal drugs covered in the SOR ( viz., 
unprescribed Adderall, hallucinogens, and cocaine) that ended by 2021. 
To be sure, distinguishing Applicant’s marijuana activity from his use of the other 
drugs covered by the SOR does produce potentially different overall mitigation results 
than if all of the drugs used by Applicant were considered cumulatively and collectively 
as a pattern of illegal drug involvement over a lengthy period of time. Undertaking this 
type of differentiated analysis suggested by the Appeal Board risks, however, a 
piecemeal assessment that violates the preemptive ban of marijuana possession and 
purchases under the CSA. And, wherever there is a conflict between state and federal 
law, federal law is controlling. 
8 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
 
   
      
  
  
  
     
  
  
 
    
     
     
 
    
    
  
 
     
 
 
  
 
 
       
    
      
  
    
     
   
   
     
Consideration of Applicant’s marijuana possession (covered by  the CSA)  and  
use over a lengthy period spanning 2016 through July 2023 cannot be  reasonably  
considered and assessed separately from the other drugs he used without engaging in 
a piecemeal analysis  of his overall drug use and involvement. Piecemeal assessment  
has long been disfavored by the Appeal Board. See  ISCR Case  No. 04-12916 at  5-6 
(App. Bd. Mar.  21, 2007); ISCR Case No.  02-11489 at 3 (App. Bd. Sep.  11,  2003).    
While whole -person assessment can potentially allow for consideration of an 
applicant’s past poly -substance abuse of other illegal drugs apart from his recent 
marijuana use, the facts in Applicant’s case do not warrant any departure from the 
preemptive ban of drugs covered by Schedules I through III of the CSA. A distinguishing 
approach to evaluating Applicant’s use of the drugs covered in the SOR and under  the 
CSA’s schedules cannot be fairly made without violating Reich’s preemptive 
pronouncements and the Board’s own historical disfavoring of piecemeal assessments 
in DOHA decision making. 
Without a lengthier time of sustained abstinence from the use and purchase of 
marijuana and the use of other illegal and non- prescribed drugs, application of any of 
the potentially available mitigating conditions is limited. Longstanding illegal drug use 
(inclusive of state- approved marijuana possession, use, and purchases ) without a 
proven period of sustained abstinence is incompatible with the coverage of the CSA is 
not enough to warrant more than partial application of potentially available mitigating 
conditions of Guideline H. 
MC ¶ ¶ 26(a), “the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or 
happened under such unusual circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or does not cast 
doubt on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment”; and 
26(b), 
the individual acknowledges his  or her drug involvement and substance  
misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and  
has established a pattern of abstinence, including, but  not limited to  .  .  .    
(2) changing or avoiding the environment  where drugs were used  and 
providing a signed statement  of intent to abstain from  all drug involvement  
and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future involvement or  
misuse is  grounds for revocation of national eligibility:  .  .  .     
partially apply to the facts of Applicant’s case. See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 11 -00193  
(App. Bd. Jan. 24, 2013) . Applicant’s limited period of cessation of his illegal drug 
involvement (16 months) makes it too soon to absolve him of risks of recurrence. 
To Applicant’s credit, he has displayed a commitment to the avoidance of illegal 
drugs and friends and family members who use them in his presence. His commitments 
to a drug- free lifestyle are certainly welcomed and encouraged. They need more 
corroborated sustained abstinence (certainly more than 16 months) , however, to satisfy 
minimum risk -free recurrence concerns. Further, w hile this is not a close case, even 
9 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
   
  
 
 
     
  
    
    
     
       
   
 
     
   
   
    
 
 
 
 
  
      
       
 
close cases must be resolved in the favor of the national security where doubt exists. 
See Dept. of Navy v. Egan, supra. 
Whole-person assessment  
From a whole- person perspective, Applicant has failed to establish enough 
independent probative evidence of his overall trustworthiness, reliability, and good 
judgment required of those who seek eligibility to hold a security clearance or sensitive 
position. He lacks enough positive reinforcements and time in abstinence (no more than 
16 months) from active possession and purchases of federally controlled marijuana and 
previously other cited drugs to facilitate safe risk-free predictions of his ability avoid 
recurrent use of federally banned drugs. 
Considering the record as a whole at this time , there is insufficient evidence of 
sustainable mitigation in the record to make safe predictable judgments about 
Applicant’s trusted ability to avoid illegal drugs in the foreseeable future. Overall, he 
does not mitigate security concerns with respect to the allegations covered by SOR ¶¶ 
1.a-1.f. 
I have carefully applied the law, as set forth  in Department of Navy v.  Egan,  484 
U.S. 518 (1988) , Exec. Or. 10865, the Directive, and the AGs , to  the facts and  
circumstances in the context of the whole person,  I  conclude drug involvement  security  
concerns  are not  mitigated.  Eligibility for  access to classified information  is  denied.  
Formal Findings  
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
     AG
AINST  APPLICANT  
   
 
                    Against Applicant  
 
                                 
G
UIDELINE  H ( DRUG INVOLVEMENT):  
Subparagraphs  1.a-1.f:            
    Conclusion  
 
         
      
    
 
 
 
 
   
 
__________________________ 
In light
 of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance.  Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Roger C. Wesley 
Administrative Judge 
10 