 
 
                                                              
                         
          
           
             
 
 
 
    
  
     
  
   
 
 
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
    
    
   
   
    
    
    
   
 
    
        
   
    
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 24-02064 
Appearances  
For Government: George A. Hawkins, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
09/05/2025 
Decision 
HOGAN, Erin C., Administrative Judge: 
This case involves security concerns raised under Guideline F (Financial 
Considerations). Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on July 20, 2022. On 
January 24, 2025, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) sent 
him a Statement of Reasons (SOR) alleging security concerns under Guideline F. The 
DCSA acted under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information 
within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of Defense ( DOD) 
Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program 
(January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) 
implemented by the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
Applicant timely answered the SOR on J anuary 30, 2025 , and requested a 
decision based on the written record in lieu of a hearing. On March 25, 2025, the 
Government sent Applicant a complete copy of its written case, a file of relevant material 
(FORM), including pleadings and evidentiary documents identified as Items 1 through 12. 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
   
    
  
  
 
 
      
      
    
 
  
   
  
 
    
   
       
     
    
    
   
     
        
     
   
   
        
  
       
    
    
  
   
     
     
He was given an opportunity to submit a documentary response setting forth objections, 
rebuttal, extenuation, mitigation, or explanation to the Government’s evidence. He 
received the FORM on April 21, 2025. He was given 30 days to submit a response to the 
FORM. He did not submit a response. The case was forwarded to the D efense Office of 
Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) Hearing Office on June 6, 2025, and assigned to me on 
August 5, 2025. 
Evidentiary Matters  
Items 1 and 2 contain the pleadings in the case and are part of the record. Items 
3 through 12 are admitted into evidence. I also added a document marked as Hearing 
Exhibit (HE) I which is relevant to the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.j. 
Some details in the decision were excluded to protect Applicant’s right to privacy. 
Specific information is available in the cited exhibits and transcript. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant, age 44, is an employee of a DOD contractor who is seeking to maintain 
his security clearance. He has been employed with the DOD contractor since July 2021. 
He served in the United States Air Force from April 2002 to December 2015. He was first 
granted a security clearance in 2004. His highest level of education is high school. He is 
married and has two children. (Item 3)   
The SOR alleged Applicant had 18 delinquent debts, a total approximate balance 
of $89,642, including: 
SOR ¶ 1.a: a $3,360 debt owed to an apartment that was placed for collection. 
(Item 5 at 2, Item 7 at 4; Item 10 at 5; Item 11 at 4; Item 12 at 3); 
SOR ¶ 1.b: a $ 1,971 debt that was placed for collection. (Item 4 at 3-4; Item 5 at 
2; Item 12 at 3-4); 
SOR ¶ 1.c: a $1,363 delinquent credit card account that was placed for collection. 
(Item 4 at 3; Item 5 at 2; Item 10 at 10; Item 12 at 3); 
SOR ¶ 1.d: a $1,062 delinquent credit card account that was placed for collection. 
(Item 5 at 3; Item 12 at 3); 
SOR ¶ 1.e: a $910 delinquent account that was placed for collection. (Item 4 at 3; 
Item 5 at 3); 
SOR ¶ 1.f: a $1,030 delinquent debt owed to a bank that was charged off. (Item 5 
at 3 GE 10 at 10); 
SOR ¶ 1.g: a $6,500 delinquent account that was charged off. (Item 4 at 1; Item 5 
at 3; Item 10 at 8; Item 12 at 4); 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
   
   
      
     
       
      
    
      
         
     
       
   
     
   
      
  
    
     
  
      
 
   
  
   
   
  
     
    
   
 
  
    
SOR ¶ 1.h: a $1,494 delinquent debt owed to a bank that was charged off. (Item 4 
at 4; Item 5 at 4; Item 12 at 3); 
SOR ¶ 1.i: a $13,140 delinquent account placed for collection . (Item 7 at 3; Item 
10 at 5; Item 11 at 3); 
SOR ¶ 1.j: a $10,465 delinquent account owed to a timeshare that was placed for 
collection. (Item 10 at 5; Item 11 at 3); 
SOR ¶ 1.k: a $2,386 delinquent credit union account that was placed for collection. 
(Item 7 at 2; Item 10 at 5; Item 11 at 4), 
SOR ¶ 1.l: a $2,225 delinquent account that was placed for collection. (Item 7 at 
4; Item 10 at 5; Item 11 at 5); 
SOR ¶ 1.m: a $1, 490 delinquent account that was owed to a bank that was 
charged off. (Item 7 at 2; Item 10 at 5; Item 11 at 4, 6; Item 12 at 2); 
SOR ¶ 1.n: a $1,272 delinquent debt owed to a credit union that was placed for 
collection. (Item 7 at 2; Item 10 at 7; Item 11 at 5); 
SOR ¶ 1.o: a $804 delinquent account owed to a credit union that was placed for 
collection. (Item 7 at 2; Item 10 at 7; Item 11 at 5); 
SOR ¶ 1.p: a mortgage account that is past due in the approximate amount of 
$35,710, which is in foreclosure with a total loan balance of $39,097. (Item 7 at 3; Item 
10 at 8; Item 11 at 7); 
SOR ¶ 1.q: a jewelry store debt with an unknown balance that was charged off . 
The credit report indicates the balance was $1,317. (Item 7 at 2; Item 11 at 6; Item 12 at 
4); and 
SOR ¶ 1.r: a $5,385 delinquent account that was charged off. (Item 4 at 1-2; Item 
5 at 4) 
On his July 2022 SCA, in response to the question “Have you EVER had a security 
clearance eligibility/access authorization denied, suspended, or revoked?” Applicant 
answered, “Yes.” He indicated that in approximately October 2021, DCSA closed his case 
because the investigator who was assigned to conduct his background investigation 
thought that he refused to be interviewed. Applicant claims it was a misunderstanding. As 
the result of his case being closed, his security clearance was revoked. Applicant was 
working overseas. He was sent home in December 2021. H e was waiting to be 
interviewed in order to get the misunderstanding cleared up. (Item 3 at 44) 
In response to DOHA Interrogatories, dated November 8, 2023, Applicant 
explained that the loss of his security clearance and job in December 2021 adversely 
affected his financial situation. His wife was diagnosed with cancer in early 2022. He was 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
      
  
   
       
      
  
    
  
  
   
   
   
      
    
 
   
    
   
   
     
   
   
    
 
 
    
   
   
  
 
    
 
   
   
   
  
working a job that paid low wages. He had to leave work often to take care of his wife. 
His employer hired him even though his security clearance investigation is still pending. 
Once he was rehired, he was able to start resolving his delinquent debts. (Item 19 at 11) 
On June 20, 2022, Applicant signed an agreement with Company A, a debt 
management service. His list of scheduled creditors to participate in the plan included the 
debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.b, 1.c, 1.e – 1.h, and 1.l. He also included a debt that was not 
alleged in the SOR. It was resolved before the SOR was issued. (Item 7 at 15-51) 
In his response to the SOR, Applicant provided a payment status of his debt 
management agreement with Company A. Some debts were settled (SOR ¶¶ 1.d, 1.e, 
1.f, and 1.n). Two debts are in active repayment plans. (SOR ¶¶ 1.c and 1.m). Two other 
debts were the next to be negotiated with the help of Company A. (SOR ¶¶ 1 .g and 1.l) 
Applicant intended to resolve all remaining SOR allegations directly with the creditors . 
(SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.i, 1.j, 1.k, 1.n, 1.p, 1.r) (Item 2) 
Based on the record evidence, the status of the delinquent debts is: 
SOR ¶ 1.a: $3,360 collection account related to a delinquent debt owed to an 
apartment complex. In his response to the SOR, Applicant claims he paid this debt. He 
did not provide documentation supporting his assertion that the debt was paid. The 
account is unresolved. (Item 2) 
SOR ¶ 1.b: $1,971 delinquent account that was placed for collection. Applicant 
claims this debt was paid in his response to the SOR. He did not provide documentation 
supporting his assertion that the debt was paid. The account is unresolved. (Item 2) 
SOR ¶ 1. c: $1,363 delinquent credit account that was placed for collection. 
Applicant included this debt in his debt management agreement with Company A. 
Attached to his SOR, he provided a copy of Company’s A’s status list of the debts included 
in his payment plan. The document indicates that 18 of 27 payments have been paid to 
this creditor. The creditor agreed to settle for $855.01. Applicant has paid $549.45 
towards this debt. He is making payments. This allegation is found for Applicant. ( Item 2 
at 4) 
SOR ¶ 1.d: $ 1,062 delinquent account that was placed for collection. Applicant 
claims this debt was paid in his response to the SOR. Applicant included this debt in his 
debt management agreement with Company A. Attached to his SOR, he provided a copy 
of Company’s A’s status list of the debts included in his payment plan. The document 
indicates that this debt was resolved. The creditor agreed to settle for $ 482.75 and 
Applicant has paid the settlement amount. This allegation is found for Applicant. (Item 2 
at 5) 
SOR ¶ 1.e: $ 910 delinquent account that was placed for collection. Applicant 
claims this debt was paid in his response to the SOR. Applicant included this debt in his 
debt management agreement with Company A. Attached to his SOR, he provided a copy 
of Company’s A’s status list of the debts included in his payment plan. The document 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
   
   
  
 
   
 
    
     
  
     
        
    
  
    
   
  
    
    
    
 
     
  
    
    
    
   
    
     
  
  
    
indicates that this debt was resolved. The creditor agreed to settle for $455 .47 and 
Applicant has paid the settlement amount. This allegation is found for Applicant. (Item 2 
at 4) 
SOR ¶ 1.f: $1,062 delinquent account that was placed for collection. Applicant 
claims this debt was paid in his response to the SOR. Applicant included this debt in his 
debt management agreement with Company A. Attached to his SOR, he provided a copy 
of Company’s A’s status list of the debts included in his payment plan. The document 
indicates that this debt was resolved. The creditor agreed to settle for $ 612.78 and 
Applicant has paid the settlement amount. This allegation is found for Applicant. (Item 2 
at 4) 
SOR ¶ 1.g: $6,500 delinquent account that was placed for collection. Applicant has 
not begun payments on this debt. He included this debt in his debt management 
agreement with Company A. Attached to his SOR, he provided a copy of Company’s A’s 
status list of the debts included in his payment plan. The document indicates that this debt 
is in negotiations and payments have not begun. It is noted that Applicant has been 
resolving other debts listed within the payment plan. This allegation is found for Applicant. 
(Item 2 at 6) 
SOR ¶ 1.h: $1,494 delinquent account that was charged off. Applicant claims this 
debt was paid in his response to the SOR. He included this debt in his debt management 
agreement with Company A. Attached to his SOR, he provided a copy of Company’s A’s 
status list of the debts included in his payment plan. The document indicates that this debt 
was resolved. The creditor agreed to s ettle for $ 852.00 and Applicant has paid the 
settlement amount. This allegation is found for Applicant. (Item 2 at 4; Item 4 at 4; Item 5 
at 4) 
SOR ¶ 1.i: $13,140 delinquent  credit  account that was placed for collection.  In his  
response to the SOR, Applicant claims that he was  making payments towards this  
account. While he did not provide a copy  of the payment plan, he did provide a copy of  
his current balance which is $7,393.08.  He is making payments towards this account.  
This allegation is  found for Applicant. (Item  2 at  7)  
SOR ¶ 1.j: $10,465 delinquent time share account (Time Share #1) that was placed 
for collection. In his response to the SOR, Applicant claims that this debt was settled . 
Upon review of the credit reports in the file, it is noted the more recent credit reports list 
another timeshare (Time Share #2) and the account was current. A quick internet search 
discovered that Time Share #1 and Time Share #2 are part of the same company. (HE I) 
I find for Applicant with respect to this debt . It is listed as current on Applicant’s most 
recent credit reports as Time Share #2 which is part of the same company as Time Share 
# 1. (Item 4 at 2; Item 5 at 5) 
SOR ¶ 1.k: $2,386 delinquent credit union account that was placed for collection. 
Applicant has not begun payments on this debt. He claims he is negotiating the debt. This 
status of the debt is unresolved. (Item 2 at 2) 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
  
     
    
   
   
  
  
  
     
       
    
     
      
   
   
  
   
  
    
 
  
   
    
    
   
  
      
  
  
 
   
    
 
  
     
   
    
 
SOR ¶ 1.l: $2,225 delinquent account that was placed for collection. Applicant has 
not begun payments on this debt. He included this debt in his debt management 
agreement with Company A. Attached to his SOR, he provided a copy of Company’s A’s 
status list of the debts included in his payment plan. The document indicates that this debt 
is in negotiation and payments have not begun. It is noted that Applicant has been 
resolving other debts listed within the payment plan. This allegation is found for Applicant. 
(Item 2 at 6) 
SOR ¶ 1.m: $ 1,490 charged-off credit card account . Applicant included this debt 
in his debt management agreement with Company A. Attached to his SOR, he provided 
a copy of Company’s A’s status list of the debts included in his payment plan. The 
document indicates that 3 of 12 payments have been paid to this creditor. The creditor 
agreed to settle for $820 . Applicant has paid $205.03 towards this debt. He is making 
payments. This allegation is found for Applicant. (Item 2 at 4) 
SOR ¶ 1.n: $1,272 delinquent credit union account that was placed for collection. 
Applicant has not begun payments on this debt. He claims he is negotiating the debt. The 
status of the debt is unresolved. (Item 2 at 2) 
SOR ¶ 1.o: $ 804 delinquent credit union account that was placed for collection. 
Applicant has not begun payments on this debt. He claims he is negotiating the debt. This 
status of the debt is unresolved. (Item 2 at 2) 
SOR ¶ 1.p: $39,097 delinquent mortgage that went to foreclosure status. Applicant 
denies this debt. In his response to the SOR, he said he contacted the mortgage company 
to verify whether he owed anything on the mortgage. The mortgage company told him 
that the home was financed with a VA loan. As a result, the VA would pay any amount 
owed on the mortgage. He also claims he contacted the VA, and they confirmed that he 
was not responsible for the mortgage. Applicant did not provide documentation from his 
mortgage company or the VA which indicate s he does not owe anything further on the 
mortgage. A document from the mortgage company or the VA is needed to corroborate 
Applicant’s assertions. It is noted that if he financed the house with a VA loan, it is likely 
that he owes nothing further on the mortgage. The status of the debt is uncertain due to 
lack of documentation. (Item 2 at 2) 
SOR ¶ 1.q: $1, 317 delinquent jewelry store debt that was charged off. In his 
response to the SOR, Applicant claims that the debt was paid. He did not provide 
documentation verifying the debt was paid. I note that the debt is no longer listed on his 
most recent credit reports. This allegation is found for Applicant. (Item 2 at 2; Item 4; Item 
5) 
SOR ¶ 1.r: $5,385 delinquent account that was charged off. In his response to the 
SOR, Applicant indicated this debt was paid. The most recent credit reports, dated 
December 12, 2024, and May 29, 2024, indicate the debt was legally settled for less than 
the full balance. This allegation is found for Applicant. (Item 2 at 4; Item 4 at 1-2; Item 5 
at 4) 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
  
   
  
  
     
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
 
    
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
     
    
 
 
   
 
 
    
 
  
    
   
   
   
In his response to DOHA Interrogatories, Applicant  provided a summary of  his  
monthly  budget  as of October  23, 2023.  His net  monthly income was $9,162.86. H is  
monthly expenses were $6,000, his monthly debt payments were $1,906.94  and his 
monthly net remainder  was $1,255.92. (Item  7 at 12)   
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” (Department of the Navy v. Egan, 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988) ). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” (Egan at 527). 
The President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant 
applicants eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is 
clearly consistent with the national interest to do so.” (EO 10865 § 2) 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the AG. These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, 
recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge applies these 
guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative 
judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available and reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” (EO 10865 § 
7). Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant has 
not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have established 
for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. (Egan, 484 U.S. at 531). “Substantial 
evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” 
(See v. Washington 
Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994) ). The guidelines presume a 
nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria listed 
therein and an applicant’s security suitability. ISCR Case No. 15 -01253 at 3 (App. Bd. 
Apr. 20, 2016). Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition by substantial 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
    
    
   
  
  
    
    
   
 
 
 
  
       
    
 
   
  
 
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the 
facts. (Directive ¶ E3.1.15). An applicant has the burden of proving a mitigating condition, 
and the burden of disproving it never shifts to the Government. (ISCR Case No. 02-31154 
at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005)) 
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent  
with the national interest to grant or continue his security clearance.”  (ISCR Case No. 01-
20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec.  19,  2002)).  “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.” 
 (Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; AG ¶ 2(b))  
A
nalysis  
Guideline F:  Financial Considerations  
The concern under this guideline is set out in AG  ¶ 18:  
F
ailure to live within one's means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
T
his concern is broader than the possibility that a person might knowingly 
compromise classified information to raise money. It encompasses concerns about a 
person’s self-control, judgment, and other qualities essential to protecting classified 
information. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible, 
unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding classified information. (ISCR 
Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012). 
AG ¶ 19 notes several disqualifying conditions that could raise security concerns. 
The disqualifying conditions that are relevant to Applicant’s case include: 
(a)  inability to satisfy  deb
 ts;  and  
(c) a history of not  m eeting financial  obligations.  
AG ¶ 
19(a) and AG ¶ 19(c) apply. Applicant’s SOR alleged 18 delinquent debts 
with a total approximate balance of $92,000. The largest debt is the $39,097 mortgage 
that was foreclosed. The remaining delinquent debts totaled $52,903.  
AG ¶ 20 describes conditions that could mitigate security concerns. The following 
are potentially applicable in this case: 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
      
   
 
      
   
  
 
      
   
      
   
 
       
  
 
  
  
     
   
 
      
  
   
  
    
   
    
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
und
er such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast doubt  
on in the individual’s current reliability,  trustworthiness, or good judgment;   
(b ) the conditions that resulted in the financial  pr oblem were largely beyond  
the per son's  control (e.g.,  loss of  employment, a business downturn,  
unexpected medical  emergency, a death, divorce or separation, clear  
victimization by  predatory  lending practices,  or identity theft),  and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;   
(c) the individual  has  received or is receiving financial counseling for the  
problem  from a legitimate and credible source, such as a non- profit  
counseling service, and there are clear indications that the problem is being  
resolved or is under control; and  
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- f aith effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.  
AG ¶ 2
0(a) does not apply because even though Applicant is making efforts to 
resolve his delinquent debts, several delinquent debts remain unresolved. H is financial 
problems are still ongoing. 
AG ¶ 20(c) does not apply because there is no evidence of financial counseling. 
While Applicant enrolled in a debt management service, the record is unclear about 
whether they provide financial counseling. 
AG ¶ 20 (b) applies in that Applicant’s financial problems were aggravated when 
he lost his job in late 2021. He was only able to find a lower -paying job, which affected 
his ability to pay his debts. He is partially responsible for the loss of his job. While he 
claims that it was a misunderstanding, the investigator conducting his background 
investigation believed that he refused to be interviewed. This mitigating condition applies 
to the fact that his wife was diagnosed with cancer a few months after he lost his job. This 
was a circumstance beyond his control. When looking at the record as a whole, I found 
Applicant acted responsibly under the circumstances. He contacted DCSA and agreed to 
be interviewed. When he got his job back, he took steps to resolve his debts. He entered 
some of the debts in a debt management plan. The remaining debts he has taken steps 
to resolve each debt one or two at time within his ability to pay. He cannot pay off all of 
his debts at once but is taking reasonable steps to resolve each debt. 
AG ¶ 20(d) applies. Applicant has demonstrated he is making a good-faith effort to 
repay his overdue creditors. He entered into a debt management agreement with 
Company A in June 2022. He has steadily resolved seven of the debts alleged in the 
agreement, he is making consistent payments on two of the debts in the agreement, and 
the two debts remaining in the agreement are pending negotiation. Regarding the debts 
alleged in the SOR that were not entered into the debt management agreement, he 
provided proof he is making payments on the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.I and he resolved 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
     
   
        
  
     
 
     
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
        
   
    
  
 
    
    
  
    
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
or made current the debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.j, 1.q and 1.r. Applicant may not be 
responsible for the mortgage foreclosure debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.p, but he did not provide 
documentation that the mortgage was a VA loan and therefore not collectible. The debts 
alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, 1.k, 1.n, and 1.o are unresolved at the end of the record. 
However, Applicant has taken steps to resolve his debts within his means. 
Overall, Applicant mitigated the concerns raised under Financial Considerations. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether the granting or continuing 
of national security eligibility is clearly consistent with the interests of national security 
must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration of the 
adjudicative guidelines, each of which is to be evaluated in the context of the whole 
person. An administrative judge should consider the nine adjudicative process factors 
listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
I have incorporated my comments under Guideline F in my whole-person analysis, 
and I have considered the factors in AG ¶ 2(d). I considered that Applicant encountered 
significant debt over the years. I considered that his wife was diagnosed with cancer a 
few months after he was lost his clearance. I considered that his ability to resolve his 
delinquent accounts w as challenged by his wife’s illness and being under -employed. 
Since June 2022, Applicant has taken constructive steps to resolve his delinquent 
accounts. He has resolved nine of the delinquent accounts, and he is making payments 
on three of the delinquent accounts. He is actively working on resolving his remaining 
delinquent debts. After weighing the disqualifying and mitigating conditions under 
Guideline F and evaluating all the evidence in the context of the whole person, I conclude 
that Applicant mitigated the security concerns raised under financial considerations. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as required by Section 
E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:    FOR APPL
ICANT  
Subparagraphs  1 .a –  1.r:  For A pplicant  
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion  
I conclude that it is clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant 
Applicant eligibility for access to classified information. Clearance is granted. 
Erin C. Hogan 
Administrative Judge 
11 