         
    
    
 
   
 
   
    
  
 
 
 
  
     
   
   
    
     
    
    
    
  
     
   
 
    
   
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 24-01318 
Appearances  
For Government: Erin T. Thompson, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
09/11/2025 
Decision 
BORGSTROM, Eric H., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not mitigate the financial considerations security concerns. Eligibility 
for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
On October 17, 2024 , the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
(DCSA) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns 
under Guideline F (financial considerations) . The DCSA acted under Executive Order 
(EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as 
amended; Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel 
Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the 
adjudicative guidelines (AG) implemented by the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
In Applicant’s November 22, 2024 response to the SOR (Answer) , she admitted 
SOR ¶¶ 1.d., 1.e., 1.f., 1.g., and 1.h., and she denied the remaining allegations. She 
attached a two-page statement with additional information about each alleged debt , two 
certificates for security training, excerpts from her divorce proceedings, some creditor 
correspondence, and her enrollment and cancellation with a debt -resolution company 
 
 
  
  
 
   
   
      
     
    
    
    
    
     
      
  
  
 
  
    
     
    
   
 
 
  
   
  
   
     
  
    
   
   
   
   
  
  
 
    
     
 
  
  
  
 
(DRC). Sh e requested a hearing before a Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals 
(DOHA) administrative judge. (Answer) 
On January 29, 2025, the Government was ready to proceed to a hearing. I was 
assigned this case on June 3, 2025. On June 13, 2025, a notice was issued scheduling 
the hearing for July 15 , 2025, by video teleconference. The hearing proceeded as 
scheduled. The Government proffered six evidentiary exhibits, and I admitted 
Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 6, without objection. Applicant and five witnesses 
testified. She submitted eight exhibits, which I admitted as Applicant Exhibits (AE) A 
through H, without objection. At Applicant’s request, I held the record open until August 
1, 2025. I received the transcript on Ju ly 25, 2025. Applicant timely submitted five post-
hearing exhibits – a post-hearing statement, a monthly budget, correspondence from a 
DRC, correspondence from a creditor, and receipts for payments in 2019 to a DRC – 
which I admitted as AE I through AE M, without objection. The record closed on August 
1, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 53 years old. She graduated from high school in 1990. She has 
attended some college courses, but she has not earned a degree. She has been married 
and divorced or annulled six times. In January 2020, she married her s eventh husband, 
who is currently incarcerated in the United Kingdom. She has four adult children and three 
adult stepchildren. (GE 1, GE 6; Tr. 65-66) 
From October 2015 to March 2021, Applicant was employed full time as a senior 
systems analyst for a DOD contractor. She voluntarily resigned that position to move to 
the United Kingdom to support her husband during his first criminal case. She remained 
unemployed until October 2021. From October 2021 to November 2021, she was 
employed full time as a systems analyst for a DOD contractor. Her annualized salary was 
approximately $85,000. From November 2021 to March 2022, she was employed full time 
as a manager for a different DOD contractor. Her annualized salary was approximately 
$90,000. She voluntarily resigned that position to move to the United Kingdom to support 
her husband during his second criminal case. She remained unemployed until May 2023. 
Since May 2023, she has been employed full time as a senior systems engineer for a 
DOD contractor. Her initial annualized salary was approximately $105,000, and her salary 
was raised to $115,000 in November 2024. She was first granted a secret clearance in 
June 2002. (GE 1, GE 6; Tr. 69-72, 113-114) 
On June 7, 2023, Applicant completed and certified an Electronic Questionnaire 
for Investigations Processing (e-QIP). Under Section 26 – Financial Record, she admitted 
eight delinquent accounts (SOR ¶¶ 1.a.-1.h.). She attributed the delinquent accounts to 
her ex-husband’s failed business and her divorce, and she expressed her intent to settle 
all but SOR ¶ 1.a. by the end of 2023. She noted that the divorce decree assigned SOR 
¶ 1.a. to her ex-husband. (GE 1) 
2 
 
 
   
  
     
  
 
     
 
 
 
     
   
     
    
 
    
 
   
   
    
 
      
   
  
   
 
    
   
  
 
  
    
  
    
  
    
 
  
 
 
 
 
On November 30, 2023, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator 
on behalf of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). During the interview, she 
admitted owing the delinquent debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.b.-1.h., but she denied the debt in SOR 
¶ 1.a. She explained that the debt in SOR ¶ 1.a. had been assigned to her ex-husband in 
the divorce degree. She also explained that she had engaged a debt-resolution company 
but had discontinued this engagement after her granddaughter died in 2019. She 
admitted that she had made no further contacts with her creditors or debt -resolution 
efforts since 2019. (GE 6) 
Applicant attributed her financial delinquencies to problems during her sixth 
marriage, the death of her granddaughter, and two criminal cases involving her current 
husband. In 2018, her then husband quit his full -time employment to start his own 
company, without any notice to Applicant. She incurred a vehicle loan (SOR ¶ 1.a.) and 
used her credit cards to pay the household financial obligations while the business 
struggled to take off. They separated in April 2019, and Applicant and her granddaughter 
moved out of the marital residence and rented an apartment. The divorce decree, entered 
on November 1, 2019, assigned financial responsibility for SOR ¶ 1.a. to Applicant’s ex-
husband. The remaining debts were assigned to the individual in whose name the 
account was established. (Answer; AE E; Tr. 74, 108) 
In September 2007, Applicant was granted custody of her granddaughter, age 1. 
In September 2019, her granddaughter, then age 13, committed suicide. When Applicant 
sought to collect death benefits or the reimbursement of funeral expenses, her claim was 
denied in about December 2019. (AE F, AE G) 
Applicant married her current husband, a citizen of the United Kingdom, in January 
2020. In March 2021, she voluntarily resigned her employment to support him during the 
first of his two criminal cases. She did not receive any income while in the United 
Kingdom, and she was financially supported by her husband’s disability benefits. Her 
husband was acquitted, and Applicant returned to the United States in October 2021. A 
second criminal case developed, and Applicant voluntarily resigned her employment in 
March 2022. She again was financially supported by her husband’s disability benefits 
while she supported him during his second criminal case. He had been charged with 
several counts of sexual misconduct with a minor. He was convicted of an unspecified 
offense and was sentenced to 15 years in prison in July 2023. He remained incarcerated 
as of the security clearance hearing, and his case was pending an appeal. Applicant 
estimated that she provided $7,000 towards her husband’s attorneys’ fees. (Tr. 67- 70, 
106) 
Applicant has engaged three debt -resolution companies (DRC) to address her  
financial delinquencies.  On May 14, 2019, Applicant engaged DRC1 to negotiate  
settlements with eight creditors, including SOR  ¶¶  1.b., 1.d., 1.e., 1.f., 1.g., and 1.h.  
Notably, she admitted the account in SOR  ¶  1.b. as her account.
1  Through DRC1, 
Applicant  agreed to make 55 monthly  payments  of  $964 to cover fees and amass funds  
to pay the anticipated negotiated settlements, with payments beginning in June 2019.  
1  The account numbers match at  AE A  at  p.  3 and GE  5 at  p. 4.  
3 
 
 
  
   
   
     
   
 
     
 
 
    
  
     
   
 
    
  
 
     
 
  
   
 
 
  
     
    
   
   
  
    
    
   
 
     
     
     
   
  
 
  
    
 
DRC1 advised Applicant to stop making monthly payments on the enrolled accounts so 
that it could negotiate settlements. She provided evidence of three $964 payments to 
DRC1. On November 22, 2019, Applicant cancelled her participation with DRC 1. 
Applicant testified that she made payments to DRC1, and some debts were settled and 
some unused funds were returned to her. She did not provide evidence as to which debts 
were settled through DRC1. (Answer AE A, AE M; GE 5; Tr. 73-74, 76-78, 109) 
On October 22, 2024, Applicant engaged DRC2 , which she paid $129 monthly. 
She cancelled her participation with DRC2 on May 29, 2025. There is no record of which 
debts were included in her engagement with DRC2 and what, if any payments, were made 
to DRC2. Applicant described DRC2 as a “credit -counseling” firm that challenged 
creditors to validate a client’s debts. DRC2 then advised a client how to dispute or seek 
removal of items on one’s credit report. She did not discuss her monthly financial 
obligations or prepare a budget with DRC2. (AE B; Tr. 74-75, 78-80) 
On May 29, 2025, Applicant engaged DRC3, which she paid $139 monthly. DRC3 
characterized itself as a credit -repair service engaged to investigate and validate items 
reported on a client’s credit report. DRC3 does not engage in the negotiation of 
settlements or make settlement payments for its clients, but it will educate clients on how 
to do so themselves. Applicant testified that she did not have a formal list of debts to be 
addressed by DRC3. Rather, DRC3 obtained and relied upon Applicant’s credit repor t 
(AE D). She did not a craft a budget with DRC3. (AE C; Tr. 75-76, 82, 122-123) 
The SOR alleges  nine  delinquent  debts totaling approximately  $106,000.  In her  
Answer,  Applicant admitted SOR  ¶¶  1.d.-1.h., and s he d enied SOR  ¶¶  1.a., 1.b., 1.c., and 
1.i. SOR ¶¶  1.b.-1.i are established by Applicant’s admissions  and the four credit reports  
in evidence.  (Answer; GE  1-6)  
SOR ¶ 1.a. This vehicle loan was opened in January 2019, became delinquent in 
May 2019, and was charged off in the approximate amount of $40,747. Applicant provided 
a copy of her divorce decree assigning this debt to her ex-husband. She testified that she 
believed her husband still possessed the vehicle because it had not been repossessed 
and auctioned. She assisted the creditor in trying to locate the vehicle so that it could be 
repossessed. She disputed this debt and provided copies of her divorce decree to the 
credit bureaus and the creditor . This debt is not Applicant’s financial responsibility. 
(Answer; GE 2-6; AE D; Tr. 82-85, 88-89) 
SOR ¶ 1.b. This individual personal loan account was opened in June 2018, 
became delinquent in August 2019, and was charged off in the approximate amount of 
$18,589. Although Applicant denied this debt in her Answer, she admitted this delinquent 
account in her e-QIP and during her security interview. She testified that DRC2 disputed 
the debt and DRC3 has sent correspondence to the creditor seeking to validate the debt. 
She has never contacted this creditor directly to inquire about this account. She is willing 
to settle this debt if valid, but she has not made any payments or payment arrangements 
on this account since 2019. This debt is not resolved. (Answer; GE 2-6; AE A, AE D; 
Tr. 85-92) 
4 
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
      
   
 
 
     
  
   
    
   
   
 
    
   
   
   
   
     
   
 
     
   
  
   
     
 
 
    
   
    
    
 
 
 
 
SOR ¶ 1.c. This credit-card account was placed for collection in September 2021 
in the approximate amount of $5,560. Applicant admitted having a credit -card account 
with this creditor. She has not contacted this creditor directly, but she believed DRC3 has 
sent correspondence to the creditor seeking to validate the debt. She is willing to settle 
this debt if valid, but she has not made any payments or payment arrangements on this 
account since its delinquency. This debt is not resolved. (Answer; GE 2-5; AE D ; Tr. 
94-96) 
SOR ¶ 1.d. This individual credit-card account was opened in July 2015, became 
delinquent in July 2019, and was charged off in the approximate amount of $15,261. At 
the hearing, Applicant admitted this debt, but she is challenging the debt to in hopes of 
reducing the finance charges or achieve settlement. She has not made any payments or 
payment arrangements on this account since its delinquency. This debt is not resolved. 
(Answer; GE 2-5; AE A, AE D; Tr. 97-98) 
SOR ¶ 1.e. This individual credit -card account was opened in January 2014, 
became delinquent in July 2019, and was charged off in the approximate amount of 
$7,594. This account was included in her DRC1 program ; however, Applicant was 
uncertain whether a settlement offer was received in November 2019. Applicant has not 
contacted this creditor directly to inquire further, and there is no record evidence of any 
payments or payment arrangements on this account since its delinquency. This debt is 
not resolved. (Answer; GE 2-5; AE A; Tr. 100-101) 
SOR ¶ 1.f. This individual credit-card account was opened in May 2011, became 
delinquent in July 2019, and was charged off in the approximate amount of $6,301. This 
account was enrolled in the DRC1 program. Applicant has not contacted this creditor 
directly, and there is no record evidence of any payments or payment arrangements on 
this account since its delinquency. This debt is not resolved. (Answer; GE 2-5; AE A, 
AE D; Tr. 102-103, 123-124) 
SOR ¶ 1.g. This individual credit -card account was opened in January 2019, 
became delinquent in July 2019, and was charged off in the approximate amount of 
$8,029. There is no record evidence of any payments or payment arrangements on this 
account since its delinquency. This debt is not resolved. (Answer; GE 2-5; AE A, AE D; 
Tr. 107-109, 123-124) 
SOR ¶ 1.h.  This individual credit-card account was  opened in April  2014, became  
delinquent in December 2019, and was charged off in the approximate amount of $978.  
Applicant provided documentation of an October 2019 settlement offer from the creditor;  
however, there is no record evidence of  any payments on this account since its  
delinquency.  On July 18, 2025, the credit or  provided correspondence stating it was no  
longer collecting on this account, but it would accept voluntary payments to satisfy the  
debt. This debt is  not resolved.  (Answer;  GE 2-5; AE A, AE K, AE L;  Tr. 109-110, 115-
116)  
5 
 
 
    
  
  
    
  
 
   
   
   
   
    
  
    
  
    
    
       
   
     
   
 
   
  
  
   
   
    
 
  
 
 
 
    
   
  
   
 
 
   
  
   
 
 
      
 
      
SOR ¶ 1.i. This individual credit-card account was placed for collection in July 2020 
in the approximate amount of $3,338. Applicant testified that DRC3 will send 
correspondence to this creditor to validate this debt. There is no record evidence of any 
payments or payment arrangements on this account since its delinquency. This debt is 
not resolved. (GE 4-5; Tr. 111-112) 
At the hearing, Applicant explained her delay in addressing and resolving her 
financial delinquencies. She testified that she was profoundly affected by the death of her 
granddaughter, whom she had raised since the age of one. She also had just endured a 
divorce and had significant funeral expenses that had not been covered by life insurance. 
She explained that it took 18 months for her to pay her granddaughter’s funeral expenses. 
For a long time following her granddaughter’s death, Applicant did not prioritize her 
financial delinquencies. She also claimed that she had been unable to contact her 
creditors while she lived in the United Kingdom, and she had prioritized supporting her 
husband during his criminal proceedings. After she had returned to the United States, she 
had traveled for several months for work and did not address her delinquent accounts. 
She was motivated to address her financial delinquencies after her November 2023 OPM 
interview; however, she did not engage DRC2 until after receiving the SOR. She has not 
received any credit counseling related to the management of her personal budget. (Tr. 
98, 100, 105-107, 120, 127-130) 
After the hearing, Applicant provided a monthly budget. She listed her monthly 
take-home pay as approximately $7,034, her monthly expenses as approximately $6,585, 
and her monthly remainder as approximately $449. Of note, she listed $1,950 in rent, 
$1,450 in groceries, and $200 in other pet care. In her post -hearing statement, she 
explained that she pays for expensive pet food for an elderly pet. Her expenses do not 
list her monthly payment to DRC3 or any debt payments related to the alleged accounts. 
In her post-hearing statement, she expressed her intent to continue working to resolve 
her delinquent accounts. (AE I, AE J) 
Whole Person 
Five witnesses testified in support of Applicant’s clearance eligibility. Witness #1, 
who has known Applicant as a friend and co -worker for about 17 years, attested to her 
outstanding work performance, trustworthiness, honesty, and work ethic. He was not 
aware of any disciplinary actions nor mishandling of sensitive information by Applicant. 
(Tr. 19-22) 
Witness #2, who has known Applicant as a co- worker for about two years, 
described her work performance as “awesome” in large part due to her subject -matter 
expertise with the information systems and platforms they use. He also praised her 
reliability, dedication, and trustworthiness. (Tr. 25-28) 
Witness #3, who has known Applicant for about 17 years, has been her current 
supervisor for the past two years. He noted her strong work ethic , trustworthiness, 
dedication, and professionalism, and that she was “one of our most trusted engineers.” 
6 
 
 
      
 
 
   
   
   
   
      
      
 
    
     
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
    
  
  
      
   
 
 
 
  
   
 
   
 
 
 
  
   
He was not aware of any disciplinary actions nor mishandling of sensitive information by 
Applicant. (Tr. 32-36) 
Witness #4, a retired officer in the U.S. Air Force who has known Applicant since 
about 2007, previously supervised Applicant while he was in the Air Force and later while 
he was employed with a DOD contractor. He praised her integrity, trustworthiness, 
judgment, and candor, and he considers her character “above reproach.” He was aware 
of some of Applicant’s financial problems and personal challenges. He was not aware of 
any disciplinary actions nor mishandling of sensitive information by Applicant. (Tr. 40-45) 
Witness #5, Applicant’s mother, corroborated Applicant’s custody of her 
granddaughter and the abuse committed against Applicant by her sixth husband. She 
attested to Applicant’s strong work ethic. She attributed Applicant’s financial problems to 
her support for her ex-husband’s failed business. Applicant separated from that husband 
in April 2019, and her granddaughter committed suicide in September 2019. Applicant 
faced significant funeral expenses, and she continued to pay rent on the apartment where 
her granddaughter had died, though she was unable to continue to reside there due to 
the emotional impact. (Tr. 49-54) 
Applicant provided two performance evaluations covering the periods Apri l 2019 
to July 2020 and November 2022 to November 2024. She met or exceeded expectations 
in all criteria evaluated. Her raters described her performance as “excellent” and noted 
that she worked extra hours to ensure tasks were completed. In November 2024, 
Applicant received a merit -based raise in her annualized salary from $105,000 to 
$115,000. (AE H) 
Policies 
When evaluating an applicant ’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
8complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. Accordin g 
to AG ¶ 2(a), the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known 
as the “whole- person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, 
reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in 
making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
7 
 
 
     
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
  
  
 
   
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
 
  
   
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
   
 
  
  
 
   
 
   
 
  
  
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to sensitive information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
sensitive information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard sensitive information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of sensitive information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis 
Guideline F: Financial Considerations 
The security concern for financial considerations is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one’s means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. . . . 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) inability to satisfy debts; and 
(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations. 
The Government established Applicant’s nine delinquent consumer accounts, 
totaling approximately $106,000. AG ¶¶ 19(a) and 19(c) apply. 
8 
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
  
   
 
  
   
  
    
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
   
 
 
   
     
   
  
  
     
     
 
    
   
 
    
    
  
      
 
 
   
     
Conditions that could mitigate the financial considerations security concerns are 
provided under AG ¶ 20. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred 
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does not cast doubt 
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment; 
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely beyond 
the person’s control (e.g., loss of employment, a business downturn, 
unexpected medical emergency, a death, divorce, or separation, clear 
victimization by predatory lending pract ices, or identity theft), and the 
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances; 
(c) the individual has received or is receiving financial counseling for the 
problem from a legitimate and credible source, such as a non- profit credit 
counseling service, and there are clear indications that the problem is being 
resolved or is under control; 
(d) the individual has initiated and is adhering to a good-faith effort to repay 
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts; and 
(e) the individual has a reasonable basis to dispute the legitimacy of the 
past-due debt which is the cause of the problem and provides documented 
proof to substantiate the basis of the dispute or provides evidence of actions 
to resolve the issue. 
Applicant bears the burdens of production and persuasion in mitigation. An 
applicant is not held to a standard of perfection in his or her debt-resolution efforts or 
required to be debt-free. “Rather, all that is required is than an applicant act responsibly 
given [her] circumstances and develop a reasonable plan for repayment, accompanied 
by ‘concomitant conduct,’ that is, actions which evidence a serious intent to effectuate the 
plan.” ISCR Case No. 15-02903 at 3 (App. Bd. Mar. 9, 2017). See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 
13-00987 at 3, n.5 (App. Bd. Aug. 14, 2014). 
Applicant’s divorce decree established that she is not financially responsible for 
the debt in SOR ¶ 1.a. AG ¶ 20(e) applies. 
Applicant’s remaining eight delinquent accounts remain, and there is no evidence 
of any payments since these accounts became delinquent. Although she has engaged 
three DRCs, she has not participated in credit counseling centered on financial education 
or budgeting, and her financial problems are clearly not under control. AG ¶¶ 20(a) and 
20(c) do not apply. 
Applicant experienced circumstances beyond her control in 2019, with her 
husband’s failed business, her divorce, the death of her granddaughter, and the funeral 
9 
 
 
   
   
 
  
      
 
 
 
  
     
  
  
   
      
   
   
  
     
  
   
       
  
 
 
 
   
    
     
     
 
      
   
   
  
   
     
  
 
expenses. While her profound emotional impact was understandable, her financial 
obligations persisted, and she had the wherewithal to continue working full time. I have 
considered Applicant’s two periods of unemployment while she supported her husband 
in the United Kingdom; however, in both instances she voluntarily resigned her 
employment and these are not circumstances beyond her control in the context of AG ¶ 
20(b). 
AG ¶ 20(b) requires the individual to act responsibly under the circumstances 
encountered. There is no evidence of any tangible debt -resolution efforts between 
December 2019 and October 2024, after the issuance of the SOR. Since October 2024, 
she has engaged DRC2 and DRC3 to dispute or validate her delinquent accounts, 
including accounts she has long admitted. She hoped that these creditors might reduce 
finance charges or settle these delinquent accounts; however, she did not present any 
evidence that these debts (SOR ¶¶ 1.b.-1.h.) were not her financial responsibility. As of 
the close of the record, there is no evidence of any payment arrangements or payments 
on these eight remaining delinquent accounts. The timing of Applicant’s debt -resolution 
efforts is relevant and material to the evaluation of her evidence in mitigation. See, e.g., 
ADP Case No. 16-03595 at 4 (App. Bd. Aug. 27, 2018)(timing of debt-resolution efforts is 
relevant in evaluating the sufficiency of case in mitigation). Applicant’s delay in addressing 
and resolving her delinquent accounts undermines her responsibility under AG ¶ 20(b). 
AG ¶¶ 20(b) and 20(d) do not apply. Applicant did not mitigate the financial considerations 
security concerns. 
Whole-Person Concept 
Under the whole- person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information by considering the totality of the 
applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should 
consider the nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; ( 5) the  extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. I considered the potentially 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances 
surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under Guideline F and the 
factors in AG ¶ 2(d) in this whole-person analysis. 
10 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
 
 
 
      
    
 
  
 
    
    
 
  
   
     
       
 
 
 
 
 
Applicant’s five witnesses and her performance evaluations establish her excellent 
work performance, subject -matter expertise, strong work ethic, trustworthiness, and 
dedication. In 2019, she experienced a profound personal tragedy that also impacted her 
financially. She took no action to address these accounts between December 2019 and 
her receipt of the SOR. Since then, she has only taken minimal steps to dispute or seek 
to validate her delinquent accounts, including accounts she has long admitted she owed. 
Although she has expressed an intent to address and resolve her d elinquent accounts, 
her slow and minimal response casts doubt as to her financial responsibility and 
judgment. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Formal Findings 
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  Guideline F:    AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraph 1.a.:   
Subparagraphs 1.b.-1.h.:  
For  Applicant  
Against Applicant  
Conclusion  
I
n light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, I conclude 
that it is not clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant Applicant ’s 
eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Eric H. Borgstrom 
Administrative Judge 
11 