 
 
 
 
  
 
               DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
   DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS    
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                    
 
     
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
    
     
 
 
 
    
  
   
   
  
  
    
  
  
   
  
 
   
 
______________ 
______________ 
In the matter of:   )  
 )  
   )     ISCR Case No. 24-00973  
   )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance   )  
A
ppearances  
For Government: Andre M. Gregorian, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
06/03/2025 
Decision  
Curry, Marc E., Administrative Judge: 
Although Applicant has not engaged in substance misuse for slightly more than 
two years, it is too soon to conclude that he has mitigated the security concern, given the 
length of time he abused drugs previously and the frequency of his drug use. Clearance 
is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On September 17, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
Consolidated Adjudications Services (DCSA CAS) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) 
to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guidelines H, Drug Involvement and 
Substance Misuse , explaining why it was unable to find it clearly consistent with the 
national security to grant security clearance eligibility. The DCSA CAS took the action 
under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry 
(February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, 
Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as 
amended (Directive); and the National Adjudicative Guidelines (AG) effective for any 
adjudication made on or after June 8, 2017. On October 10, 2024, Applicant answered 
the SOR, admitting  the allegations and requesting a decision based on the evidence on 
file rather than a hearing. On Octob er 31, 2024, Department Counsel prepared a File of 
1 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
      
 
    
   
 
  
   
     
 
     
  
 
   
   
     
 
 
   
    
 
    
 
  
   
  
    
 
     
   
   
      
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Relevant Material (FORM), setting forth the Government’s arguments against Applicant’s 
security clearance worthiness. The FORM contains four attachments, identified as Items 
1 through 4. 
Applicant received a copy of the FORM on December 31, 2024.  He was given 30 
days to file a response. He did not file a response whereupon the case was assigned to 
me on February 14, 2025. After receiving the FORM, I admitted Items 1 through 4 into 
the record. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 28- year-old single man with no children. He lives with his fiancé. 
After graduating from high school magna cum laude, he earned a bachelor’s degree in 
aerospace/mechanical engineering in 2020, and a master’s degree in mechanical 
engineering in August 2023. (Item 1 at 31) Since 2021, he has worked for a defense 
contractor as an engineering systems modeling test engineer. 
Applicant smoked marijuana five to seven days per week from 2015 to 2020. (Item 
2 at 6) During this period, he would purchase between one and 3.5 grams of marijuana 
per week. (Item 1 at 36) His use decreased in 2021 after he began working at his current 
job. He stopped using it entirely in March 2023. 
Over the years, Applicant has also abused various other illegal drugs, including 
cocaine on four or five occasions between July 2019 and December 2019, psychedelic 
mushrooms once or twice per year from April 2016 to March 2023, and LSD three times 
between 2016 and 2020. (Item 1 at 35-36) 
In addition to illegal drugs, Applicant has misused prescription drugs over the 
years, including Adderall and Vyvanse with various frequencies between 2015 and 2019, 
and codeine once in 2016 and once in 2019. He took the Adderall and the Vyvanse to 
help him complete classroom assignments. (Item 1 at 38) 
Applicant has not used illegal drugs or misused any prescription drugs since his 
employer told him that he would need to apply for a security clearance. He does not intend 
on resuming illegal drug use because he is now a more mature person, whose 
relationship with his girlfriend has given him a sense of purpose. In addition, all his friends 
with whom he previously used illegal drugs have quit using them. (Item 1 at 35) 
Policies  
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion the Executive 
Branch has in regulating access to information pertaining to national security, 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
   
  
    
    
 
 
 
  
      
  
 
 
 
 
 
emphasizing that “no  one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.”  Department of the Navy  
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518,  528 (1988). When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for  a security  
clearance, the administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition  
to brief introductory explanations  for each guideline, the adjudicative guideli nes list  
potentially  disqualifying conditions  and  mitigating conditions, which are required to be  
considered in evaluating an applicant’s eligibility for access  to classified information.  
These guidelines  are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities  of  
human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the factors listed in the  
adjudicative process.  The administrative judge’s overall adjudicative goal is a fair,  
impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶  2(a), the entire process is a  
conscientious scrutiny of variables known as the “whole- person concept.” The  
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person,  
past and pr esent, favorable and unfavorable,  in making a decision.  
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 1(d) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present 
evidence to establish controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, 
the applicant is responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, 
explain, extenuate, or mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department 
Counsel. . ..” The applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable 
security decision. 
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must consider the 
totality of an applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances in light of the nine 
adjudicative process factors in AG ¶ 2(d). They are as follows: 
(1) the nature, extent,  and s
 eriousness of the conduct;  
(2) the circumstances  s urrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation;   
(3) the frequency  and  recency  of the conduct;   
(4) the individual’s  age  and maturity  at the time of  the conduct;  
(5) the extent to which participation is voluntary;   
(6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation and other  per manent  
behavioral changes;   
(7) the motivation for the conduct;   
(8) the potential  f or pressure, coercion,  exploitation, or duress; and  
(9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Analysis  
Gu
ideline  H: Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse  
3 
 
 
 
    
 
     
 
     
   
  
 
    
   
   
 
  
      
 
 
 
 
 
     
    
   
   
 
    
 
    
   
   
        
   
   
 
 
Under this Guideline, “the illegal use of controlled substances, to include the 
misuse of prescription and non-prescription drugs, and the use of other substances that 
cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner inconsistent with their 
intended purpose can raise questions about an individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, 
both because such behavior may lead to physical or psychological impairment, and 
because it raises questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, 
rules, and regulations.” (AG ¶ 24) 
Applicant’s history of drug involvement and substance misuse triggers the 
application of AG ¶ 25(a) and AG ¶ 25(c), “illegal possession of a controlled substance 
including cultivation, processing, manufacture, purchase, sale, or distribution; or 
possession of drug paraphernalia. 
The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 26 are potentially applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
und
er such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and  does  not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability,  trustworthiness,  or good judgment;  and  
(b) the individual acknowledges  hi s or her drug involvement and substance  
misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and  
has established a pattern of  abstinence, including, but not limited to:  
(1) disassociation from drug- us ing associates and contacts;  
and   
(2) changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were  
u
sed . . .    
Appl
icant has not used cocaine or LSD in nearly six years. Similarly, he has not 
misused any prescription medications in nearly six years. Consequently, the previous 
abuse of these drugs is mitigated by AG ¶ 26(a) and I resolve the subparagraphs alleging 
their use in his favor. 
Applicant’s friends no longer use illegal drugs and Applicant has settled down, 
focusing on his relationship with his fiancé and his job. Based on these facts, I conclude 
AG ¶ 26(b)(1) and AG ¶ 26(b)(2) apply. Conversely, Applicant abused marijuana and 
psychedelic mushrooms as recently as March 2023. Moreover, between 2015 and 2020, 
he was using marijuana nearly every day . Under these circumstances AG ¶ 26(a) does 
not apply to his use of marijuana and psychedelic mushrooms , and the recency and 
frequency of his use of these drugs outweighs the positive security inference generated 
by the applicability of AG ¶¶ 26(b)(1) and 26(b)(2). Under these circumstances, Applicant 
has failed to mitigate the drug involvement and substance misuse security concerns. 
Whole-Person Concept  
4 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
      
    
 
  
 
   
 
   
 
 
      
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
_____________________ 
I considered the whole-person concept factors in my analysis of the disqualifying 
and mitigating conditions, discussed above, and they do not warrant a favorable 
conclusion. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  Guideline H:   AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a  –  1.b:  Against Applicant  
Subparagraphs  1.c-1.f:  For Applicant  
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant or continue Applicant’s 
eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Marc E. Curry 
Administrative Judge 
5 