 
 
 
 
                
      
 
 
 
 
    
  
         
    
   
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
        
           
            
   
       
      
      
   
 
          
        
      
      
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00816 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Alison O’Connell, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
03/18/2025 
Decision 
Curry, Marc E., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to mitigate the security concerns stemming from his illegal use of 
marijuana. Clearance is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On July 24, 2024, the Department of Defense Consolidated Adjudications Services 
(DOD CAS) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant, detailing security concerns 
under Guideline H, drug involvement. The DOD CAS took the action under Executive Order 
(EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as 
amended; DOD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the Nat. Sec. Adjudicative 
Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information (AG) effective 
within the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
In an answer, dated July 25, 2024, Applicant admitted the SOR allegations and 
requested a decision based on the evidence on file instead of a hearing. On August 26, 
2024, Department Counsel prepared a file of relevant material (FORM), a brief with seven 
attachments supporting the Government’s contention that Applicant should be precluded 
1 
 
 
            
            
           
            
   
 
 
 
 
            
         
     
      
 
 
        
         
          
           
  
 
 
 
        
           
            
   
 
             
           
 
 
       
   
 
            
   
           
from having access to classified information. Applicant received the FORM on August 29, 
2024, and he was notified he had 30 days to file a re sponse. On September 18, 2024, 
Applicant filed a written response, whereupon the case was assigned to me on September 
30, 2024. After being assigned the case, I incorporated the attachments into the record as 
Items 1 through 7. 
Findings of Fact  
 Applicant is a  33-year-old single man. He graduated  from  college  in  2013.  After  
graduating, he  worked  for nine  years at a  casino  as an  entertainment  technician. (Item  5  at  
10)  He has been  hired  to  work for a  defense  contractor  in a  position  that requires a  security  
clearance.  
Applicant’s current supervisor is a team leader. He was familiar with Applicant’s work 
quality, having worked with Applicant at the casino before working for the defense 
contractor. Per the supervisor, Applicant while at his previous job “was always punctual in 
his attendance, diligent in his duties, and [not] impaired in any manner.” (Response to 
FORM at 3) 
Applicant smoked marijuana with varying degrees of frequency between 2007 and 
2023. Sometimes, he purchased it. He started using marijuana in April 2007, when he was 
in high school, typically taking one hit from a bong twice per week. (Item 6 at 3) He 
continued using it with this frequency through August 2009 before quitting to focus on 
college. 
Applicant resumed  using  marijuana  in January 2010, and  he  used  it  until  he 
graduated  from  college  in May 2013. He  quit  at this time  to  focus  on  job  hunting.  (Item  6  at  
4)  During  college, he  consumed  marijuana  three  to  four  times  per  week,  typically  taking  two  
to  three  puffs  per use.  He quit using  around  the  time  he  graduated  to  focus on  job  hunting.  
(Item  6 at 4)  
After gaining a job in about September 2013, Applicant resumed marijuana use at 
the same level of frequency that he used while in college, either home alone or with friends. 
(Item 6 at 4) Marijuana use gradually made him feel lazy and paranoid, and this feeling 
prompted him to quit in May 2016. (Item 6 at 4, 24) 
Applicant resumed using marijuana in November 2016. For the next seven years, he 
used it in month-and-a-half intervals, stopping for about two weeks “to clear [his] head,” 
before resuming. (Item 6 at 4) 
On one occasion in 2017, Applicant consumed cocaine. He did not like how it made 
him feel, consequently, he never used it again. (Item 6 at 4, 10) 
Applicant last used marijuana in April 2023. He stated in his response to the FORM 
he has no intention of resuming use and is deeply regretful of using marijuana, asserting 
that if he “had known [he] would be presented with an opportunity to work for the U.S. 
2 
 
 
   
            
        
            
 
 
 
 
      
    
          
       
          
           
         
         
     
 
 
 
          
  
 
government 16 years ago, [he] would have made much better choices in regards to drug 
use.” (Response to FORM at 1) Also, in assessing the nature and seriousness of the 
conduct, he asked that I consider, in essence, that marijuana is trending towards being 
legalized, both medicinally and recreationally, in the majority of states. (Response to FORM 
at 1) 
Policies  
The  U.S. Supreme  Court has recognized  the  substantial discretion  the  Executive  
Branch  has in  regulating  access to  information  pertaining  to  national security,  emphasizing  
that “no  one  has a  ‘right’ to  a  security clearance.” Department  of the  Navy v. Egan, 484  
U.S. 518, 528 (1988). When evaluating an  applicant’s suitability for a security clearance,  
the  administrative  judge  must  consider the  adjudicative  guidelines. In  addition  to  brief  
introductory explanations for  each  guideline,  the  adjudicative  guidelines list  potentially  
disqualifying  conditions and  mitigating  conditions, which  are required  to  be  considered  in  
evaluating  an  applicant’s eligibility  for  access  to  classified  information.  These  guidelines  are  
not  inflexible  rules  of law. Instead, recognizing  the  complexities  of  human  behavior, these  
guidelines are applied  in  conjunction  with  the  factors listed  in the  adjudicative  process.  The  
administrative judge’s overa ll  adjudicative  goal is a  fair, impartial,  and  commonsense  
decision.  The  administrative  judge must consider all  available,  reliable information  about  
the  person, past and  present,  favorable and unfavorable, in making  a decision.  
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence 
to establish controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant 
is responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel. . . .” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
Analysis  
Guideline  H: Drug Involvement  and Substance Abuse  
The security concerns about drug involvement and substance abuse are set forth in 
AG ¶ 24: 
The  illegal use  of controlled  substances, to  include  the  misuse  of  prescription  
and  non-prescription  drugs, and  the  use  of  other substances that cause  
physical or mental impairment or are  used  in a  manner inconsistent  with  their  
intended  purpose  can  raise  questions about an  individual’s reliability and   
trustworthiness, both  because  such  behavior may lead  to  physical or  
psychological impairment and  because  it raises questions about a  person’s  
ability or willingness to  comply with laws, rules, and regulations.   
3 
 
 
 
 
         
          
          
     
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
        
    
 
   
 
       
 
       
 
 
 
 
Applicant’s history of illegal drug  use  triggers  the  application  of  AG ¶  25(a), “any  
substance  abuse.”  Applicant’s occasional  purchase  of  marijuana  over  the  years  triggers  the  
application  of AG ¶   25(c), “illegal possession  of a   controlled  substance,  including  
cultivation, processing,  manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession  of drug  
paraphernalia.”  He used  cocaine  once, more  than  eight years ago. I conclude  it does not  
create  a security concern, and I resolve subparagraph 1.b in  his favor.  
Applicant has not used marijuana in nearly two years. However, given the long 
period of time that he used it, the frequency of the use, and the frequent times he quit, then 
resumed his use, it is too soon to conclude he has mitigated the security concern. In 
reaching this decision, I was particularly concerned that he continued smoking for several 
years after he periodically started experiencing negative side effects. Under these 
circumstances, none of the mitigating conditions apply. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the  whole-person  concept,  the  administrative  judge  must  consider  the  totality  
of an  applicant’s  conduct and  all  relevant  circumstances  in  light  of the  nine  adjudicative  
process factors in AG ¶ 2(d). They are as follows:  
(1) the  nature, extent, and  seriousness of  the  conduct;  (2)  the  circumstances  
surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable participation; (3) the  
frequency and  recency of the  conduct;  (4) the  individual’s  age  and  maturity  at  
the  time of the conduct;(5) the extent to which participation is voluntary; (6) 
the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  and  other permanent behavioral 
changes; (7)  the  motivation  for the  conduct;  (8) the  potential for pressure,  
coercion, exploitation, or duress;  and  (9) the  likelihood  of continuation  or  
recurrence.  
Given  the  nature  and  seriousness  of the  conduct and  its frequency,  not  enough  time  
has elapsed to conclude Applicant’s marijuana use no longer poses a security risk.  
Formal Findings  
Formal findings f or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline H:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  1.a:   Against Applicant 
Subparagraph  1.b:  For Applicant 
4 
 
 
 
            
          
  
 
 
 
 
  
_____________________ 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the security interests of the United States to grant Applicant eligibility 
for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Marc E. Curry 
Administrative Judge 
5 