 
 
 
 
 
 
                  DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
     DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS      
           
             
 
 
 
In  the m
atter  of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR Case No.24-01467  
  )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance  )  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
      
 
 
___
___________ 
______________ 
Appearances  
For Gov
ernment: Mark D. Lawton, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
10/02/2025 
Decision  
FOREMAN, LeRoy F., Administrative Judge: 
This case involves security concerns raised under Guideline H (Drug Involvement 
and Substance Misuse) and E (Personal Conduct) . The Guideline H concerns are 
mitigated, and the Guideline E allegations are refuted. Clearance is granted. 
Statement  of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA)  on June 4, 2023. On 
December  23, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) sent  
him  a Statement  of Reasons (SOR) alleging security concerns  under Guidelines  H and 
E.  The DCSA acted  under  Executive Order (Exec.  Or.)  10865,  Safeguarding Classified  
Information within Industry  (February 20, 19 60), as amended ; Department of Defense  
(DOD)  Directive 5220.6,  Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review  
Program  (January 2, 1992),  as amended (Directive);  and the adjudicative guidelines (AG)  
promulgated in Security Executive Agent Directive 4,  National Security Adjudicative  
Guidelines  (December 10, 2016),  which became effective on June 8,  2017.  
  
1 
 
 
 
 
   
  
     
 
  
    
 
 
    
    
    
 
   
     
     
 
     
   
      
    
 
 
  
     
   
   
      
    
    
 
   
    
  
    
    
    
   
  
   
 
     
     
  
     
    
  
Applicant answered the SOR on March 6, 2025, and requested a decision on the 
written record in lieu of a hearing. Department Counsel submitted the Government’s 
written case on April 25, 2025. A complete copy of the file of relevant material (FORM) 
was sent to Applicant, who was given an opportunity to file objections and submit material 
to refute, extenuate, or mitigate the Government’s evidence. He received the FORM on 
May 12, 2025, but did not respond. The case was assigned to me on September 2, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges that Applicant used marijuana with varying frequency from 
about January 2021 to about January 2023. SOR ¶ 1.b alleges that he purchased 
marijuana during the same time period. SOR ¶ 1.c alleges that he used and purchased 
marijuana with varying frequency from about June 2021 to August 2021, while employed 
in a sensitive position. In his answer to the SOR, he admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b. He 
admitted SOR ¶ 1.c in part, denying that he was employed in a sensitive position at the 
time. His admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact. 
SOR ¶ 2.a alleges that Applicant falsified his SCA by failure to disclose that he 
received a “memorandum of expectations” for improperly charging time during June to 
August 2021. SOR ¶ 2.b alleges that he falsified his SCA by failing to disclose his drug 
involvement “other than previously listed,” while possessing a security clearance. In his 
answer to the SOR, he denied both allegations. 
Applicant is a 28-year-old electromagnetic effects engineer. He is not married. He 
has a two-year-old son. He attended college from August 2016 to January 2023. While in 
college, he was employed by a defense contractor as a part-time intern from January 
2021 to June 2022. He submitted an SCA in January 2021, received a security clearance, 
and signed a nondisclosure agreement in April 2021. (GX 7) He earned a bachelor’s 
degree in January 2023. After graduation, he moved to another state and was hired by 
his current employer in April 2023. He submitted another SCA in June 2023. (GX 2) 
In response to interrogatories from DCSA (then known as the Department of 
Defense Consolidated Adjudication Service (DoD CAS)) in May 2024 and from DOHA in 
September 2024, Applicant admitted using marijuana less than 30 times between January 
2021 and January 2023 in order to deal with a diagnosis of diabetes and the stress of 
college. He obtained it “through word of mouth” or at a tobacco shop. Marijuana use was 
decriminalized in his state of residence. At about the time of his graduation from college 
in January 2023, he realized that his use of marijuana violated federal law, and he stopped 
using it, because he did not want it to affect his job opportunities or his ability to hold a 
security clearance. (GX 4; GX 5) 
A Defense Information System for Security (DISS) incident report dated August 
29, 2022, reported that Applicant had been accused of mischarging about 25 hours of 
work time between June 2021 through August 2022, while he was working as a part-time 
intern, and that he was issued a “memorandum of expectations.” When Applicant was 
interviewed by a security investigator in January 2024, he denied mischarging work time 
and told the investigator that he did not recall receiving a “memorandum of expectations.” 
2 
 
 
 
 
  
      
  
 
  
    
   
   
   
 
   
  
   
       
  
   
    
 
  
   
   
   
 
   
     
  
   
 
      
 
     
   
     
    
  
 
  
  
   
 
       
    
  
    
   
    
 
(GX 6) The record contains no evidence reflecting the basis for the DISS report or the 
investigator’s question about mischarging time, and no other evidence indicating that 
Applicant mischarged work time. 
When Applicant submitted his SCA in June 2023, he answered “No” to the 
following question in Section 13A: “For this employment (January 2021 to June 2022), in 
last seven years, have you received a written warning, been officially repr imanded, 
suspended, or disciplined for misconduct in the workplace, such as a violation of security 
policy?” The SOR alleges that this answer was a deliberate falsification. 
The absence of documentary evidence showing the basis for the DISS report and 
the investigator’s question about mischarged work time, coupled with Applicant’s 
statement that he had no knowledge of a “memorandum of expectations” satisfies me 
that, even if a mischarging of time occurred, Applicant was not aware that he had been 
given a written notice concerning it. Furthermore, a “memorandum of expectations” falls 
short of a reprimand or disciplinary action. Thus, I conclude that his negative response to 
the first question does not establish a deliberate falsification. SOR ¶ 2.a is not established. 
In the SCA, the first part of Section 23 asks, “In the last seven (7) years, have you 
illegally used any drugs or controlled substances?” Applicant answered “Yes” and fully 
disclosed his drug involvement. However, i n the second part of same section, he 
answered “No” to the following question: “Have you ever illegally used other otherwise 
been illegally involved with a drug or controlled substance while possessing a security 
clearance other than previously listed? (italics added) The phrase “other than previously 
listed” is ambiguous, because it suggests that it is not necessary to repeat drug 
involvement already admitted in the earlier part of Section 23. Nevertheless, the SOR 
alleges that this answer was a deliberate falsification. 
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he denied intentional falsification. He stated: 
I deny that I knowingly falsified material facts on e-QIP. Falsified is a harsh 
word because even though I did use marijuana at that time in that position, 
I disclosed several times between that time period working at [previous 
employer] that I did. Maybe I was confused by the way the e- QIP asks 
questions. 
I deny that I used marijuana while knowingly holding a position of trust. To 
be fair, a position of trust was not granted to me. Falsification is a harsh 
word because when I worked at [the employer] as an intern, I was given 
special program access, not a security clearance because there were still 
thinks I had no access to. I did not have a secret clearance or anything less 
than that. I only had whatever program acces s that allowed me to access 
the high bay while being supervised at all times, so the reason I chose No 
to this question is because I did not believe I had a security clearance. I 
again misunderstood this question because of how it is being asked as well 
as going off of my own honest understand. As mentioned early, the proof is 
there that I smoke d marijuana and have already claimed that through the 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
      
    
   
     
    
     
   
   
     
    
     
 
  
      
  
    
    
 
 
 
      
   
  
     
    
  
      
 
 
   
   
    
   
      
    
 
     
  
  
   
   
   
 
period aforementioned several times through the S  F 86- eQIP  
questionnaire.  
The SOR alleges that Applicant’s negative answer to the second question about 
drug involvement while holding a sensitive position was a deliberate falsification. The 
evidence establishes that Applicant held a security clearance while employed from June 
2021 to August 2021. The evidence also establishes that he held a positi on for which a 
security clearance was required, and as such, was a sensitive position. However, 
Applicant apparently has understandably misunderstood the difference between eligibility 
for access to classified information and actual access to classified information. His 
assertion in his answer to the SOR, if true, indicates that he probably did not have actual 
access to classified information. His answer to the SOR also indicates his confusion about 
being accused of falsification of the second question about drug involvement after fully 
disclosing his drug involvement in his answer to the previous question. 
I conclude that Applicant’s negative answer to the second question about 
marijuana was understandable, because his drug involvement was “previously listed” in 
his answer to the first question about drug involvement. It was not a deliberate 
falsification, because he did not think that he was required to repeat the disclosures that 
he made in his answer to a previous question. Thus, I conclude that SOR ¶ 2.b is not 
established. 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
decision. An a dministrative judge must consider all available and reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
4 
 
 
 
 
   
   
    
   
  
 
   
   
 
    
   
  
   
 
   
   
  
 
   
       
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865 
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant 
has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have 
established for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan at 531. Substantial 
evidence is “such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to 
support a conclusion in light of all the contrary evidence in the same record.” See I SCR 
Case No. 17- 04166 at 3 (App. Bd. Mar. 21, 2019) . It is “less than the weight of the 
evidence, and the possibility of drawing two inconsistent conclusions from the evidence 
does not prevent [a Judge’s] finding from being supported by substantial evidence.” 
Consolo v. Federal Maritime Comm’n, 383 U.S. 607, 620 (1966). “Substantial evidence” 
is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. Washington Metro. Area 
Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines presume a nexus or 
rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria listed therein and 
an applicant’s security suitability. ISCR Case No. 15-01253 at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 20, 2016).  
Once the  G overnment establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive  ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of  proving a mitigating condition,  
and the burden of disproving it  never shifts to the  Government.  See  ISCR Case No.  02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep.  22,  2005).   
 
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent  
with the national interest to grant or continue  his security clearance.”  ISCR Case No.  01-
20700 at  3 (App. Bd.  Dec. 19, 2002).  “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  Egan  at 531.   
A
nalysis  
Guideline  H  (Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse)  
The concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any “controlled substance” as 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
  
      
defined in 21 U.S.C. 802.  Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in  
this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above.  
Applicant’s admissions and the evidence in the FORM establish the following 
disqualifying conditions under this guideline: 
AG  ¶ 25(a): any  s ubstance misuse (see above definition);  
AG ¶  25( c): illegal possession of  a c ontrolled substance, including cultivation,  
processing,  manufacture, purchase, sale, or distribution; or  possession of  drug  
paraphernalia;  and  
AG ¶ 25(f):  any  illegal  drug use while granted access  to classified information or  
holding a sensitive position.  
The 
following mitigating conditions are potentially applicable: 
AG ¶ 26(a): the  behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or  
happened under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or does not  
cast doubt  on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  
judgment;  
AG ¶ 26(b):   t he individual  acknowledges his  or her drug involvement  and  
substance misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this  
problem, and has established a p  attern of abstinence,  including, but  not  
limited to:  
(
1) disassociation from drug-us ing associates and contacts;  
(2) changing or  av oiding the environment where drugs were used;  
and  
(3) providing a signed statement  of  intent to abstain from  all drug  
involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future  
involvement  or misuse is grounds for revocation of  national security  
eligibility; and  
On October 25, 2014, the Director of National Intelligence (the Security  Executive  
Agent (SecEA))  issued DNI Memorandum ES 2014-00674, “Adherence to Federal  Laws
Prohibiting M arijuana Use,” which states:  
 
[C]hanges to state laws and the laws of the District of Columbia pertaining 
to marijuana use do not alter the existing National Security Adjudicative 
Guidelines . . . . An individual’s disregard of federal law pertaining to the 
use, sale, or manufacture of marijuana remains adjudicatively relevant in 
national security determinations. As always, adjudicative authorities are 
expected to evaluate claimed or developed use of, or involvement with, 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
 
   
 
 
   
   
 
    
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
       
 
   
  
     
     
     
   
 
      
   
 
     
  
    
  
 
   
 
  
  
   
marijuana using the current adjudicative criteria. The adjudicative authority 
must determine if the use of, or involvement with, marijuana raises 
questions about the individual’s judgment, reliability, trustworthiness, and 
willingness to comply with law, r ules, and regulations, including federal 
laws, when making eligibility decisions of persons proposed for, or 
occupying, sensitive national security positions. 
On December 21, 2021, the SecEA promulgated clarifying guidance concerning 
marijuana-related issues in security clearance adjudications. It states in pertinent part: 
[Federal] agencies are instructed that prior recreational marijuana use by an 
individual may be relevant to adjudications but not determinative. The SecEA 
has provided direction in [the adjudicative guidelines] to agencies that 
requires them to use a “whol e-person concept.” This requires adjudicators 
to carefully weigh a number of variables in an individual’s life to determine 
whether that individual’s behavior raises a security concern, if at all, and 
whether that concern has been mitigated such that the individual may now 
receive a favorable adjudicative determination. Relevant mitigations include, 
but are not limited to, frequency of use and whether the individual can 
demonstrate that future use is unlikely to recur, including by signing an 
attestation or other such appropriate mitigation. 
AG ¶ 26(a) is established. Applicant purchased and used marijuana from January 
2021 to January 2023 in a state where its use was legal, but in violation of federal law. 
He stopped using marijuana in January 2023, more than two years ago, because he knew 
that marijuana use violated federal law and was an impediment to obtaining a security 
clearance. He has undergone significant positive changes in circumstances that make 
recurrence unlikely, i.e., graduation from college, moving from the college environment to 
another geographical area, seeking for employment that requires a security clearance , 
and learning that marijuana use is an impediment to obtaining a clearance. 
AG ¶ 26(b) is established. Applicant has acknowledged his drug involvement. He 
moved to another state in April 2023, thereby leaving the college environment and 
disassociating from drug- using associates and contacts. He has declared his intent to 
abstain from all drug involvement in writing , and he has acknowledged that future drug 
involvement is inconsistent with holding a clearance. Even though he has not formalized 
his statement of intent in the format described in AG ¶ 26(b)(3), he has provided the 
equivalent of a statement in that format. 
Guideline E,  Personal Conduct  
The security concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual ’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to 
7 
 
 
 
 
    
    
   
    
   
    
  
 
   
 
  
   
   
   
 
 
    
   
 
    
      
 
 
     
 
    
 
     
 
   
 
    
cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national  security 
investigative or  adjudicative processes.  
The relevant disqualifying condition is AG ¶ 16(a): “deliberate omission, 
concealment, or falsification of relevant facts from any personnel security questionnaire, 
personal history statement, or similar form used to conduct investigations, determine 
employment qualifications, award benefits or status, determine national security eligibility 
or trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities .” This disqualifying condition is not 
established. Applicant has refuted the allegations that he falsified his SCA. No other 
disqualifying conditions under this guideline are established. 
Whole-Person  Analysis  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant a security 
clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. An administrative judge must evaluate 
an applicant’s security eligibility by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct and 
all the relevant circumstances. An administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.   
I have incorporated my comments under Guidelines H and E in my whole-person 
analysis and applied the adjudicative factors in AG ¶ 2(d). After weighing the disqualifying 
and mitigating conditions under Guidelines H and E, and evaluating all the evidence in 
the context of the whole person, I conclude Applicant has mitigated the security concerns 
raised by his drug involvement and refuted the allegations of falsifying his SCA. 
Formal Findings  
I make the following formal findings on the allegations in the SOR: 
Guideline H (Drug Involvement and  
Substance Misuse):   FOR  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.c:  For Applicant  
Guideline E (Personal  Conduct):  FOR  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  2.a  and 2.b:  For Applicant  
8 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion  
I conclude that it is clearly consistent with the national security interests of the 
United States to grant Applicant eligibility for access to classified information. Clearance 
is granted. 
LeRoy F. Foreman 
Administrative Judge 
9 