 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                               
     
               
          
             
 
    
  
                               
   
  
 
 
 
 
     
  
 
 
 
 
               
                                                             
 
 
  
 
            
      
  
 
 
        
      
        
         
          
          
      
     
        
    
       
        
     
 
__________ 
__________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
____________________ ) ISCR Case No. 24-00330 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Erin Thompson, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
01/08/2025 
Decision 
WESLEY, ROGER C., Administrative Judge 
Based upon a review of the case file, pleadings, and exhibits, Applicant did not 
mitigate financial consideration concerns. Eligibility f or access to classified information 
or to hold a sensitive position is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On May 23 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS) issued a statement of reasons (SOR) 
to Applicant detailing reasons why under the financial considerations guideline the 
DCSA CAS could not mak e the preliminary affirmative determination of eligibility for 
granting a security clearance, and recommended referral to an administrative judge to 
determine whether a security clearance should be granted, continued, denied, or 
revoked. The action was taken under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified I nformation within Industry (February 20, 1960 ); Department of Defense 
(DoD) Directive 5220.6 Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
Program, (January 2, 1992) (Directive); and Security Executive Agent Directive 4, 
establishing in Appendix A the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for 
Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a 
Sensitive Position (AGs), effective June 8, 2017. 
1 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
           
          
         
        
       
  
 
      
          
  
 
        
        
       
      
            
             
          
 
 
 
    
       
   
    
 
          
          
         
     
 
 
 
      
     
            
       
  
                                                                                                                                                        
 
        
               
Applicant responded to the SOR on June 10, 2024, and requested that his case 
be resolved on the written record without a hearing . Applicant received the FORM on 
August 24 2024, and did not r espond to the FORM with any post-FORM submissions. 
This case was assigned to me on December 3, 20 24. The Government’s case 
consisted of five exhibits and were admitted without objection as Items 1-5. 
Summary of Pleadings  
Under Guideline F, Applicant allegedly failed to file his federal and state income 
tax returns as required for tax years 2012 through 2020. Allegedly, Applicant’s tax filing 
lapses have not been resolved and remain outstanding. 
In Applicant’s response to the SOR, he admitted each of the allegations with 
explanations and clarifications. He claimed a job loss prior to communicating with a 
retained tax preparer for his tax filing fail ures. He claimed, too, that he has filed his tax 
returns for the tax years in issue without providing any copies of the filed returns. 
Applicant claimed he was owed a refund of $2,800 for the covered tax years, which he 
is currently ineligible to receive due to time restrictions. And, he claimed personal 
“fulfillment” in his job that he ta kes very seriously. (Item 2) Applicant provided 
documentary support for his claims. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 27-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security 
clearance. Allegations covered in the SOR and admitted by Applicant are incorporated 
and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow. 
Background  
Applicant never married and has no children. (Item 3) He earned a high school 
diploma in June 2005 and reported no military service. ( Item 3) Since October 2020, 
Applicant has been employed by h is current employer as a maintenance trade helper. 
(Iem 3) Previously, he worked for other employers in various jobs. He has held a 
security clearance since March 2021. 
Applicant’s finances   
Tax records document that Applicant did not file his federal and state income tax 
returns, as required, for tax years 201 2 through 2020. (GEs 4-5) Applicant provided no 
documentation of steps he has taken to file his tax returns for the years in issue. He 
attributed his tax filing failures to complacency and his belief that he did not owe any 
federal or state income taxes for the years in issue. (Item 4) 
Policies  
By virtue of the jurisprudential principles recognized by t he U.S. Supreme Court 
in Department of the Navy v. Egan , 484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988 ), “no one has a ‘right’ to a 
2 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
         
         
          
         
          
      
 
       
        
     
   
 
     
      
   
 
      
       
      
     
 
 
        
           
      
     
           
    
 
          
        
          
         
  
             
 
 
       
         
       
       
         
      
      
       
 
 
security clearance.” As Commander in Chief, “the President has the authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information. ” Id. at 527. 
Eligibility for access to classified information may only be granted “upon a finding that it 
is clearly consistent with the national interest to do so. ” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. 
An administrative judge ’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial , and 
commonsense decision. An administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The AGs list guidelines to be considered by judges in the decision -making 
process covering DOHA cases. These guideline s take into account factors that could 
create a potential conflict of interest for the individual applicant, as well as 
considerations that could affect the individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified information. 
These guidelines include conditions that could raise a security concern and may 
be disqualifying (disqualifying conditions), if any, and all of the conditions that could 
mitigate security concerns, if any. These guidelines must be con sidered before deciding 
whether or not a security clearance should be granted, continued, or denied. Although, 
the guidelines do not require judges to place exclusive reliance on the enumerated 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in the guidelines in arriving at a decision. 
In addition to the relevant AGs, judges must take into account the pertinent 
considerations for assessing extenuation and mitigation set forth in ¶ 2(a) of the AGs, 
which are intended to assist the judges in reaching a fair and impartial, commonsense 
decision based on a careful consideration of the per tinent guidelines within the context 
of the whole person. The adjudicative process is designed to examine a sufficient period 
of an applicant’s life to enable predictive judgments to be made about whether the 
applicant is an acceptable security risk. 
When evaluating an applicant’s conduct, the relevant guidelines are to be 
considered together with the following ¶ 2(d) factor s: (1) the nature, extent, and 
seriousness of the conduct; (2) the circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include 
knowledgeable participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to which 
participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation and other 
permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation of the conduct; (8) the potential for 
pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the likelihood of continuation or 
recurrence. 
3 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
          
 
 
 
 
                    
 
         
   
 
 
     
     
       
     
             
           
  
 
     
     
         
          
      
          
            
Viewing the issues raised and evidence as a whole, the following individual 
guidelines are pertinent herein: 
Financial Considerations  
The  Concern:  Failure  or inability to  live  within one’s means, satisfy debts 
and  meet  financial obligations  may indicate  poor self-control,  lack of  
judgment,  or unwillingness to  abide  by rules or regulations,  all  of  which  
can  raise  questions  about  an  individual’s reliability, trustworthiness and  
ability to  protect  classified  or sensitive information.  Financial distress can  
also be  caused  or exacerbated  by, and  thus can  be  a  possible  indicator of  
other issues of personnel security concern such  as  excessive  gambling,  
mental health  conditions, substance  misuse, or alcohol abuse  or 
dependence. An  individual who  is financially  overextended  is at greater  
risk of having  to  engage  in illegal acts or otherwise questionable acts to  
generate  funds.  .  .  .   AG ¶  18.   
    Burdens of Proof  
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. 
Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk the applicant 
may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. Such decisions 
entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation a bout potential, rather than 
actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Clearance decisions must be “in 
terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty 
of the applicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 § 7. See also Exec. Or. 12968 (Aug. 
2, 1995), § 3.1. 
Initially, the  Government must establish, by  substantial evidence,  conditions in  
the  personal  or professional history of  the  applicant  that  may  disqualify the  applicant  
from  being  eligible  for  access to  classified  information.  The  Government has  the  burden  
of establishing  controverted  facts alleged  in  the  SOR.  See  Egan, 484  U.S. at 531.   
“Substantial evidence”  is “more  than  a  scintilla  but less  than  a  preponderance.”   See  v.  
Washington  Metro. Area  Transit Auth., 36  F.3d  375, 380  (4th  Cir. 1994). The  guidelines  
presume  a  nexus or rational connection  between  proven  conduct under any of the  
criteria  listed  therein and  an  applicant’s  security suitability.  See  ISCR Case  No. 95-0611  
at 2 (App. Bd. May 2, 1996).  
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition by substantial 
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it 
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue his [or her] security 
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01 -20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). The burden of 
disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the Government. See ISCR Case No. 
4 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
   
    
 
 
      
      
       
    
 
 
       
         
         
      
   
 
 
 
        
        
       
     
    
 
 
 
      
      
         
       
      
         
  
 
02-31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, 
if they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; see AG ¶ 2(b).  
Analysis  
Security concerns are raised over Applicant’s failure to timely file his federal and 
state income tax returns for tax years 2012 through 2020, as required. His multiple tax-
filing lapses raise trust, reliability, and judgment concerns about his current and future 
ability to manage his finances safely and responsibly. 
Financial concerns  
Applicant’s multiple federal and state income tax-filing lapses for tax years 201 2-
2020 warrant the application of one of the disqualifying conditions (DC) of the fin ancial 
consideration guidelines. DC ¶ 19(f), “failure to file or fraudulently filing annual Federal, 
state, or local income tax returns or failure to pay annual Federal, state, or local income 
tax as required,” apply to Applicant’s situation. 
Applicant’s admitted   tax-filing  failures require  no  independent proof to  
substantiate  them. See  Directive 5220.6  at E3.1.1.14; McCormick on  Evidence  §  262  
(6th  ed. 2006).  His  admitted  tax-filing  failures are  fully documented  and  create  judgment  
issues over the  management of h is  finances. See  ISCR  Case  No. 03-01059  (App. Bd.  
Sept. 24, 2004).  
Financial stability in a person cleared to protect classified information is required 
precisely to inspire trust and confidence in the holder of a security clearance that 
entitles the person to access classified information. While the principal concern of a 
security clearance holder’s demonstrated difficulties is vulnerability to coercion and 
influence, judgment and trust concerns are implicit in cases involving delinquent debts. 
Historically, the  timing  of addressing  and  resolving  Applicant’s tax-filing  lapses,   
are critical to  an  assessment of an  applicant’s trustworthiness, reliability, and   good  
judgment in  following  rules and  guidelines  necessary for those  seeking  access  to  
classified  information  or to holding a  sensitive  position.  See  ISCR  Case  No. 14-06808  at  
3  (App. Bd. Nov.  23. 2016); ISCR  Case  No. 14-01894  at 5  (App.  Bd. Aug.  18, 2015);  
ISCR  Case  No. 14-00221  at  2-5  (App.  Bd. June  29, 2016);  and  ISCR  Case  No. 01-
05340 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 5, 2002).  
Without any documented evidence of Applicant’s timely resolving his federal and 
state tax -filing failures, none of the potentially available mitigating conditions are 
available to him. In the past, the Appeal Board has imposed evidentiary burdens on 
applicants to provide documentation corroborating actions taken to resolve financial 
problems, whether the issues relate to tax-filing lapses or delinquent taxes and other 
accounts. See ISCR Case No. 19 -02593 at 4 -5 (App. Bd. Oct. 18, 2021); ISCR Case 
No. 19-01599 at 3 (App. Bd. Jan. 20, 2020). 
5 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
      
          
         
     
        
       
 
  
 
      
            
      
          
      
   
 
            
          
       
          
        
       
         
     
        
  
 
 
        
            
 
 
 
                                 
                                                                                                                      
                                                           
 
            
        
   
 
 
 
 
 
__________________________ 
Applicant’s expressed commitments to address h is federal and state tax -filing 
obligations responsibly in the future, while encouraging, lack the needed documentation 
to corroborate his assurances and atone for his past tax -filing failures. Expressed 
financial commitments without proper documentation represent no more than promises 
to resolve his still outstanding tax-filing failures and are not viable substitutes for a track 
record of filing income tax returns in a timely manner and otherwise acting in a 
responsible way. See ISCR Case No. 17-04110 at 4 (App. Bd. Sept. 26, 2019). 
Whole-person assessment  
Whole-person assessment of Applicant’s clearance eligibility requires 
consideration of whether his history of tax filing failures is fully compatible with minimum 
standards for holding a security clearance. While Applicant is entitled to credit for h is 
work in the defense industry, h is efforts are not enough at this time to overcome h is 
repeated failures or inability to timely file his federal and state income tax returns . 
Overall trustworthiness, reliability, and good judgment have not been established. 
Based on a consideration of all of the facts and circum stances considered in this 
case, it is too soon to make safe predictions that Applicant will be able to undertake 
documented good-faith efforts to mitigate the Government’s financial concerns within 
the foreseeable future. More time is needed for h im to establish the requisite levels of 
stability with h is finances to establish h is overall eligibility for holding a security 
clearance. I have carefully applied the law, as set forth in Department of Navy v. Egan, 
484 U.S. 518 (1988) , Exec. Or. 10865 , the Directive, and the AGs , to the facts and 
circumstances in the context of the whole person . I conclude financial considerations 
security concerns are not mitigated. E ligibility for access to classified information is 
denied. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Guideline  F  (FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS): AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a-1.b:   Against Applicant 
   Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance.  Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Roger C. Wesley 
Administrative Judge 
6 