 
 
                                                              
           
             
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
  
 
 
       
         
          
      
   
    
      
  
 
         
          
       
        
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS  
In  the  matter of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR  Case No.  24-01612  
 )  
Applicant for Security Clearance  )  
Appearances  
For Government: Andrew H. Henderson, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
02/05/2025 
Decision  
HALE, Charles C., Administrative Judge: 
This case involves security concerns raised under Guideline E (Personal Conduct). 
Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on August 4, 2022, and 
another October 19, 2023. On October 8, 2024, the Department of Defense (DoD) sent 
him a Statement of Reasons (SOR) alleging security concern s under Guideline E. The 
DoD acted under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information 
within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; D oD Directive 5220.6, Defense 
Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended 
(Directive); and the Security Executive Agent Directive 4, National Security Adjudicative 
Guidelines (AG) (December 10, 2016). 
Applicant submitted his Answer to the SOR on October 16, 2024, and requested 
a decision on the written record without a hearing. Department Counsel submitted the 
Government’s written file of relevant material (FORM) on October 13, 2024. On October 
13, 2024, a complete copy of the file of relevant material (FORM) was sent to Applicant, 
1 
 
 
 
     
   
 
 
           
         
           
        
      
           
 
 
      
        
  
 
       
       
      
             
             
         
       
      
   
 
   
          
      
        
  
       
     
             
      
           
         
          
 
 
who  was  given  an  opportunity  to  file  objections and  submit  material to  refute,  extenuate,  
or mitigate  the  Government’s evidence.   He  acknowledged  receipt of   the  FORM  on  
December 31, 2024, and  did  not provide  a  response. The  case  was  assigned  to  me  on  
January 30, 2025.  
The SOR and the Answer are the pleadings in the case. FORM Items 2 through 4 
are admitted into evidence without objection. 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s Answer to the SOR , he admitted using marijuana . SOR ¶ 1.a . He 
admitted falsifying his answers on his SCA , stating “I had previously used marijuana in 
the past to deal with anxiety, stress , and digestion issues. I quit after moving away from 
[State Z] and looking for work and thought admitting would hurt my chances of finding 
work.” SOR ¶¶ 1.b-1.e. His admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact . After a 
thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following 
additional findings of fact. 
Applicant is 37 years old. He earned his bachelor’s degree in 2009. He has worked 
for his employer since August 2022. He is not married and has no children. (Item 2; Item 
3; Item 4.) 
SOR ¶ 1.a: From about January 2016 until about December 2021, you used 
and purchased marijuana with varying frequency. Applicant admitted in his security 
clearance interview that he bought marijuana from his roommate. His motivation for 
purchasing and using marijuana was to help with his anxiety, stomach issues, and allow 
him to relax on the weekend. He estimated he bought marijuana about once a month. His 
roommate passed away in the last 13 months. While Applicant was using marijuana, he 
did not hold a security cleara nce. He informed the investigator he did not intend to 
“purchase marijuana again in the future.” He was drug tested for employment in the late 
summer of 2022 and passed successfully. (Item 4.) 
SOR ¶¶ 1.b-1.c: Falsified material facts on an SCA dated August 4, 2022, in 
response to the following question: “Section 23 – Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug 
Activity when you stated “No” to both whether you had illegally used drugs or 
controlled substance s in the last seven years and been involved in the illegal 
purchase, manufacture, cultivation, trafficking, production, transfer, shipping, 
receiving, handling or sale of any controlled substance and deliberately failed to 
disclose the information set forth in subparagraph 1.a. above . Applicant was given 
opportunity to disclose his marijuana use from 2016 to 2021 during his June 2024 security 
clearance interview. He did not disclose his marijuana use. After being confronted by the 
investigator he “agreed to using marijuana from 2016 to 2021” as set forth in SOR ¶ 1.a. 
He told the investigator he “did not think it was relevant and occurred a long time ago.” 
He also said he did not list his marijuana use because he “did not want to look bad for his 
job.” (Item 4.) 
2 
 
 
       
          
      
        
  
      
     
             
      
            
         
          
 
 
 
        
          
           
       
       
      
       
 
       
        
 
         
      
       
    
 
           
   
         
      
         
    
 
 
        
              
          
      
   
 
SOR ¶¶ 1.d-1.e: Falsified material facts on an SCA dated October 19, 2023, , 
in response to the following question: “Section 23 – Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug 
Activity when you stated “No” to both whether you had illegally used drugs or 
controlled substances in the last seven years and been involved in the illegal 
purchase, manuf acture, cultivation, trafficking, production, transfer, shipping, 
receiving, handling or sale of any controlled substance and deliberately failed to 
disclose the information set forth in subparagra ph 1.a. above. Applicant was given 
opportunity to disclose his marijuana use from 2016 to 2021 during his June 2024 security 
clearance interview. He did not disclose his marijuana use. After being confronted by the 
investigator he “agreed to using marijuana from 2016 to 2021” as set forth in SOR ¶ 1.a. 
He told the investigator he “did not think it was relevant and occurred a long time ago.” 
He also said he did not list his marijuana use because he “did not want to look bad for his 
job.” (Item 4.) 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
decision. An a dministrative judge must consider all available and reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865 
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant 
has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have 
established for issuing a clearance. 
3 
 
 
    
    
        
        
       
        
       
          
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
    
      
     
       
     
 
 
          
     
 
    
   
      
  
 
 
       
   
 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for acc ess to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 15-01253 at 3 
(App. Bd. Apr. 20, 2016). 
Once  the  Government establishes a  disqualifying  condition  by substantial 
evidence, the  burden  shifts to  the  applicant  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or mitigate  the  
facts.  Directive ¶  E3.1.15. An  applicant has  the  burden  of proving  a  mitigating  condition,  
and  the  burden  of  disproving  it never shifts  to  the  Government. See  ISCR  Case  No. 02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005).  
An applicant “has the ultimate burden  of demonstrating  that it is clearly consistent  
with the national interest to grant or continue  his security clearance.”  ISCR Case No. 01-
20700  at 3  (App. Bd. Dec.  19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance  determinations should  err, if 
they must, on the side  of denials.” Egan, 484  U.S. at 531.   
Analysis  
Guideline E, Personal Conduct  
The security concern for personal conduct is set out in AG ¶ 15, as follows: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect 
classified information. Of special inte rest is any failure to provide truthful 
and candid answers during the security clearance process or any other 
failure to cooperate with the security clearance process. 
Applicant's intentional failure to disclose his marijuana use in his SCA while holding 
a security clearance raises the following disqualifying condition, under AG ¶ 16: 
(a): deliberate omission, concealment, or falsification of relevant facts from 
any personnel security questionnaire, personal history statement, or similar 
form used to conduct investigations, determine employment qualifications, 
award benefits or status, determine national security eligibility or 
trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities. 
The following mitigating conditions, under AG ¶ 17, are potentially relevant for SOR 
¶¶ 1.b - 1.e: 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
         
            
           
          
(a): the  individual made  prompt, good-faith  efforts to  correct the  omission, 
concealment,  or falsification  before being confronted with the facts;  and  
(c): the offense is so  minor, or so  much time has passed, or the behavior is  
so  infrequent, or it happened  under such  unique  circumstances that it is 
unlikely to  recur and  does  not  cast  doubt on  the  individual's reliability,  
trustworthiness, or good judgment.  
AG ¶¶  17(a) and  17(c)  are not established  for  SOR ¶¶ 1.b  - 1.e.  Applicant did not  
voluntarily disclose  his drug  use  to  the  investigator. He  admitted  he  deliberately  lied  on 
the  two  SCAs  because  he  feared  not  getting  his position. Applicant's false statements on 
two  SCAs  concerning  his  drug  use  and  purchasing  drugs  are not  “minor,”  because  such  
statements strike at the heart of the security clearance  process. See  ISCR Case No. 09-
01652  (App. Bd.  Aug. 8, 2011).  An  applicant who deliberately fails to  give  full, frank,  and  
candid answers to  the  government in connection  with  a  security clearance  investigation  
or adjudication  interferes with  the  integrity of  the  industrial security program. See  ISCR  
Case  No.  01-03132  at 3  (App. Bd. Aug. 8, 2002). Applicant’s false statements are  recent  
and  calculated  to  give him  the  most favorable profile  for his  security clearance  application.   
The following mitigating conditions, under AG ¶ 17, are potentially relevant for SOR 
¶ 1.a: 
(c): the offense is so  minor, or so  much time has passed, or the behavior is  
so  infrequent, or it happened  under such  unique  circumstances that it is 
unlikely to  recur and  does  not  cast  doubt on  the  individual's reliability,  
trustworthiness, or good judgment.  
(d) the  individual has acknowledged  the  behavior and  obtained  counseling  
to  change  the  behavior or taken  other positive steps to  alleviate  the  
stressors, circumstances, or  factors  that  contributed  to  untrustworthy, 
unreliable, or other inappropriate behavior, and such  behavior is unlikely to  
recur;  
(e) the  individual has taken  positive  steps to  reduce  or eliminate  vulnerability 
to  exploitation, manipulation, or duress.  
(g) association  with  persons involved  in criminal activities was unwitting,  
has ceased, or  occurs under circumstances that do  not cast doubt upon  the  
individual's reliability,  trustworthiness,  judgment,  or willingness to  comply  
with rules and regulations.  
AG ¶¶ 17( c)-17(e) and 17(g) are established for SOR ¶ 1. a. Applicant admitted 
using marijuana. He stopped using prior to starting his position. He tested negative for 
marijuana in 2022 . The person whom he purchased marijuana from is no longer his 
roommate and has recently passed away. Applicant’s drug use is mitigated by time and 
sufficient evidence he is no longer involved in circumstances which cast doubt upon his 
5 
 
 
    
     
 
 
       
       
          
       
       
      
 
 
         
      
      
        
      
     
   
   
 
        
         
         
         
          
   
 
        
       
         
 
 
     
  
     
                       
                    
reliability, trustworthiness, judgment, or willingness to comply with rules and regulations . 
These mitigating conditions do not apply to SOR ¶¶ 1.b-1.e. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole -person concept. In applying the whole -
person concept, an administrative j udge must evaluate an applicant’s eligibility for a 
security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct and all relevant 
circumstances. An a dministrative judge should consider the nine adjudicative pr ocess 
factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
I have incorporated my comments under Guideline E in my whole-person analysis 
and have applied the adjudicative factors in AG ¶ 2(d). Because Applicant requested a 
determination on the record without a hearing, I had no opportunity to evaluate h is 
credibility and sincerity based on demeanor. Insufficient time has passed since he lied on 
his SCAs to overcome the extent and seriousness of h is conduct. See ISCR Case No. 
01-12350 at 3-4 (App. Bd. Jul. 23, 2003). 
After weighing the disqualifying and mitigating conditions under Guideline E, and 
evaluating all the evidence in the context of the whole person, I conclude Applicant has 
not mitigated the security concerns raised by his conduct under Guideline E. 
Formal Findings  
I make the following formal findings on the allegations in the SOR: 
Paragraph  1: Guideline  E:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
For Applicant 
Subparagraphs  1.b  - 1.e:  Against Applicant 
 Subparagraph 1.a:                                   
            
      
 
 
 
 
6 
 
 
 
       
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion  
I conclude that it is not clearly consistent with the national security interests of the 
United States to grant Applicant eligibility for access to classified information. Clearance 
is denied. 
Charles C. Hale 
Administrative Judge 
7 