 
                                                                         
 
 
  
 
                
      
 
 
 
 
   
   
          
    
    
                                                                                                                             
                                       
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
     
   
 
 
 
   
    
   
  
      
     
    
   
   
 
         
   
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 24-02293 
Appearances  
For Government: William H. Miller, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
09/19/2025 
Decision 
Hale, Charles C., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant presented insufficient evidence of what progress, if any, that she has 
made to resolve her delinquent debt. Under these circumstances, she failed to mitigate 
the financial considerations security concerns. Her application for a security clearance is 
denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On December 27, 2024, the Department of Defense (DoD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing sec urity concerns under Guideline F , financial 
considerations, explaining why it was unable to find it clearly consistent with the national 
interest to grant security clearance eligibility . The DoD took the action under Executive 
Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 
1960), as amended; D oD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security 
Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the National 
Adjudicative Guidelines (AG) effective for any adjudication made on or after June 8, 2017. 
On March 18, 2025, Applicant answered the SOR , admitted 13 of 15 allegations, 
and requested a decision based on the administrative (written) record in lieu of a hearing. 
 
 
    
  
     
 
     
   
 
    
  
 
  
        
      
 
     
   
   
    
   
     
 
     
     
    
      
   
   
    
 
     
     
     
  
   
 
    
   
      
    
      
 
      
       
       
      
On April 2, 2025, Department Counsel prepared a File of Relevant Material (FORM), 
setting forth the Government’s arguments against Applicant’s security clearance 
worthiness. The FORM contains nine attachments, identified as Item 1 through Item 9. 
Applicant received a copy of the FORM on April 4, 2025. She was given 30 days 
to file a response to file objections and submit material to refute, extenuate, or mitigate 
the security concerns . She did not file a response. The case was assigned to me on 
September 2, 2025. FORM Items 1 and 2 are pleadings in the case. Items 3 through 9 
are admitted without objection. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 50 years old. She has never married and has one minor child. (Item 3 
at 5, 9, 18, 20, Item 5 at 21.) 
Applicant graduated high school in 1993. She has never held a security clearance. 
She has been employed by her sponsor since September 2023. She worked as a sales 
manager for a private company from October 2017 to September 2023. She worked in 
various sales jobs from 2014 to 2017 and only lists one period of unemployment , from 
November 2013 to January 2014, on her security clearance application (SCA) that she 
completed in October 2023. (Item 3 at 9, 10-15, 31.) 
Applicant denied SOR ¶ 1.a, that she was indebted to [mortgage holder ] on a 
mortgage account that is in foreclosure status with a loan balance of $226,668, a balance 
which was delinquent as of the date of SOR. In her Answer she stated, “I deny. Is no 
longer on credit report, sold. ” Item 9, the December 2024 credit report, lists the account 
as “[p]aid/zero balance” and foreclosure proceeding started. She did not provide 
documentation showing the resolution of the account or the current status. (Item 7 at 8, 
Item 8 at 4, Item 9 at 1.) 
Applicant denied SOR ¶ 1.o, that she was indebted to [creditor] on an account that 
has been charged off in the approximate amount of $3,342 , which as of the date of th e 
SOR remained delinquent. In her Answer she stated, “I deny. Looking into this. I don't see 
[it] on the credit report.” She did not provide documentation showing the resolution of the 
account or the current status. (Item 7 at 3.) 
For the remaining SOR allegations , SOR ¶¶ 1. b through 1.n, and 1.p, Applicant 
admitted the debts. In her Answer to each of these allegations but one, she stated, “I 
admit. Signed up with [Debt Relief Company (DRC)] and a settlement has been reached. 
Payments are being made to DRC,” with the exception of SOR ¶ 1.n where she stated “I 
admit. Will be added the DRC account.” (Items 7-9.) 
Applicant told a DoD investigator during her February 2024 security clearance 
interview she began to have financial challenges when her mortgage payment increased 
from $1,100 to $1,500 a month and her income was insufficient to meet her financial 
obligations. As a result , she stopped making payments to her credit card accounts 
2 
 
 
   
   
  
 
     
    
   
  
  
   
 
    
    
   
   
      
     
      
      
   
     
   
  
  
 
   
   
  
 
 
because she did not have enough money to pay the bills . She told the investigator she 
had hired DRC to develop a debt resolution plan and get her finances under control . 
(Answer; Item 4.) 
Two days after Applicant’s February 2024 interview with a DoD investigator, she 
enrolled $31,168 in debt with DRC. (Item 4; Item 6.) The estimated length of her program 
with DRC is 48 months, with reoccurring bi -weekly payments of $246, to commence on 
March 8, 2024. DRC estimated her last payment would be in March 2028. The DRC 
package does not list what debts are enrolled. (Item 6.) She did not provide any 
documentation showing whether she was current on these bi-weekly payments with DRC. 
In June 2024, the Government issued Applicant interrogatories asking about listed 
debts (a) through (p) . She responded in November 2024 . With the exception of three 
debts listed in the interrogatories, she marked “yes” that payment arrangements had been 
made. One exception was for her mortgage ( SOR ¶ 1.a), where s he marked “paid” for 
her mortgage debt. (Item 5 at 8 debt (l).) She did not explain how this debt was paid or 
provide sufficient evidence substantiating this claim. For one of the other exceptions, she 
marked “yes” making payments (debt (d) $2,256), which appears to be SOR ¶ 1.l,  which 
alleges a lesser amount of $2,050 for the same creditor. The other exception (debt (m)) 
is marked “paid” and does not appear to be alleged on the SOR. The explanation she 
provided in her interrogatory response for the circumstances that caused her accounts to 
become delinquent was, “[g]ot into too much credit card debt and with only making 
minimum payments got too much. There was change in job with less pay and fell behind 
trying to keep up with payments. ” (Item 5.) She did not provide any documents showing 
whether she was current on her bi-weekly payments of $246 with DRC. Without providing 
additional information she stated DRC had settled some of her accounts and that some 
were still under negotiation. (Item 5 at 13, Item 6.) 
Policies  
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion the Executive  
Branch has in regulating access to information pertaining to national security,  
emphasizing that “no  one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.”  Department of the Navy  
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518,  528 (1988). When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for  a security  
clearance, the administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition  
to brief introductory explanations  for each guideline, the adjudicative guideli nes list  
potentially  disqualifying conditions  and  mitigating conditions, which are required to be  
considered in evaluating an applicant’s eligibility for access  to classified information.  
These guidelines  are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities  of  
human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the factors listed in the  
adjudicative process.  The administrative judge’s overall  adjudicative goal is a fair,  
impartial,  and commonsense dec ision. According to AG ¶  2(a), the entire process is a  
conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the “whole- person concept.”  
The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the  
person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a decision.  
3 
 
 
 
   
      
 
    
 
    
    
   
 
 
  
      
   
 
 
 
 
     
   
   
  
   
 
     
       
 
      
 
 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 1(d) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present 
evidence to establish controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, 
the applicant is responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, 
explain, extenuate, or mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department 
Counsel. . ..” The applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable 
security decision. 
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must consider the 
totality of an applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances in light of the nine 
adjudicative process factors in AG ¶ 2(d). They are as follows: 
(1) the nature, extent,  and s
 eriousness of the conduct;  
(2) the circumstances  s urrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation;   
(3) the frequency  and  recency  of the conduct;   
(4) the individual’s  age  and maturity  at the time of  the conduct;   
(5) the extent to which participation is voluntary;   
(6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation and other  per manent  
behavioral changes;   
(7) the motivation for the conduct;   
(8) the potential  f or pressure, coercion,  exploitation, or duress; and  
(9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
An alysis  
Guideline  F:  Financial Considerations  
The s
ecurity concern under this Guideline states, “failure to live within one’s 
means, satisfy debts, and meet financial obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack 
of judgment, or unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified 
or sensitive information.” (AG ¶ 18) 
Applicant’s history of financial problems triggers the application of AG ¶ 19(a), 
“inability to satisfy debts,” and AG ¶ 19(c), “a history of not meeting financial obligations.” 
. 
The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 are potentially applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
und
er such circumstances that it is  unlikely to recur and does  not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good judgment;  
4 
 
 
 
 
  
  
       
    
 
    
   
  
 
   
   
       
     
      
     
  
   
  
    
  
 
     
     
      
 
      
     
       
 
 
   
      
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial  pr
 oblem were largely beyond  
the person’s control  (e.g., loss of employment, a business  downturn,  
unexpected medical emergency, a death,  divorce, or separation, clear  
victimization by  predatory  lending pract ices, or identity theft),  and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;   
(c) the individual  has  received or is receiving financial counseling for the  
problem from  a legitimate and credible source, such as a non- profit credit  
counseling service,  and there are clear indications that the problem is being  
resolved or is under control; and  
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- f aith effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debt.  
Appl
icant failed to mitigate the financial considerations security concerns, none of 
the mitigating conditions apply . She initially attributed h er financial problems to an 
increase in her mortgage payment and then later cites underemployment as the cause 
for falling behind on her financial obligations . Applicant’s financial issues are recent and 
ongoing and did not occur under such circumstances that are unlikely to recur, which 
continue to cast doubt on her current reliability, trustworthiness, and good judgment. AG 
¶ 20(a) does not apply. 
The evidence indicates Applicant may have been underemployed when she 
changed jobs but the basis for the increase in her mortgage is unexplained. Although 
these circumstances may have been beyond her control, she still ha s the burden of 
establishing that she acted responsibly under the circumstances. Under these 
circumstances, only the first prong of AG ¶ 20(b) applies . AG ¶ 20(d) is only partially 
established. S he enrolled over $31,000 in debt with DRC after meeting with the DoD 
investigator but there is no evidence she is adhering to a good- faith effort to repay 
overdue creditors or is adhering to her agreement with DRC to make $246 bi -weekly 
payments to resolve her debts . The one debt , SOR ¶ 1.l, which decreased from the 
interrogatory amount was the one debt she marked on the interrogatories as making 
payments. 
Applicant’s financial issues are recent and ongoing and did not occur under such 
circumstances that it is unlikely to recur , which continue to cast doubt on her current 
reliability, trustworthiness, and good judgment. AG ¶ 20(a) does not apply. 
AG ¶ 20(c) is not applicable. While Applicant appears to have received some 
financial counseling when she contracted with DRC, there is insufficient information in the 
record what the counseling was and that the problem is being resolved or is under control. 
Whole-Person Concept  
I considered the whole-person concept factors in my analysis of the disqualifying 
and mitigating conditions, discussed above, and they do not warrant a favorable 
5 
 
 
  
     
   
   
   
     
 
 
   
   
 
  
   
   
 
   
  
    
 
 
    
    
 
  
 
  
   
   
 
 
      
   
   
 
                                   
 
 
  
conclusion. While Applicant’s financial delinquencies can be attributable to circumstances 
beyond her control, she did not document that her debts are under control or r esolved. 
Because Applicant requested a determination on the record without a hearing, I had no 
opportunity to evaluate her credibility and sincerity based on demeanor. See ISCR Case 
No. 01-12350 at 3-4 (App. Bd. Jul. 23, 2003). Overall, the record evidence leaves me with 
questions and doubts as to Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. 
This decision should not be construed as a determination that Applicant cannot or 
will not attain the state of true reform and rehabilitation necessary to be eligible for a 
security clearance. The determination of an individual’s eligibility and suitabilit y for a 
security clearance is not a once in a lifetime occurrence, but is based on applying the 
factors, both disqualifying and mitigating, to the evidence presented. Under Applicant’s 
current circumstances, a clearance is not warranted. In the future, she may well 
demonstrate persuasive evidence of her security worthiness. 
After weighing the disqualifying and mitigating conditions under Guideline F and 
evaluating all the evidence in the context of the whole person, I conclude Applicant has 
not mitigated the security concerns raised by her delinquent debts. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  Guideline F:   AGAINST  APPL
 ICANT  
Subparagraphs  1 .a-1.k:  Against  A pplicant  
Subparagraph 1.l:  For Applicant  
Subparagraphs  1 .m-1.p:  Against Applicant  
Conclusion  
In l
ight of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant or continue Applicant ’s 
eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Charles C. Hale 
Administrative Judge 
6 