                                                              
 
 
                                                                                                                    
          
           
             
 
 
 
  
  
        
   
   
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
   
 
 
    
    
  
       
  
  
   
   
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPART
MENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 24-02410 
Appearances  
For Government: Mark D. Lawton, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
12/08/2025 
Decision 
HOGAN, Erin C., Administrative Judge: 
The security concern raised under Guideline E, Personal Conduct, are found for 
Applicant because he did not intentionally falsify his security clearance application. The 
security concerns raised under Guideline H , Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse, 
are not mitigated. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on June 24, 2024. 
(Item 2) The Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) issued Applicant 
a Statement of Reasons (SOR) on March 27 , 2025, detailing security concerns under 
Guidelines E and H. DCSA acted under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of 
Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance 
Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and Security Executive 
Agent Directive 4, National Security Adjudicative Guidelines, effective within the DOD as 
of June 8, 2017. 
1 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
  
   
    
   
 
 
    
  
 
 
       
    
  
 
     
      
     
     
   
 
  
    
    
 
      
     
  
 
    
 
    
   
 
 
 
     
   
       
On April 17, 2025, Applicant answered the SOR and elected a decision on the 
written record by an administrative judge of the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals 
(DOHA). On May 28, 2025, Department Counsel submitted the Government’s File of 
Relevant Material (FORM), including documents identified as Items 1 through 3. Applicant 
received the FORM on June 24, 2025. He was afforded 30 days after receiving the FORM 
to file objections and submit material in refutation, extenuation, or mitigation. He did not 
submit additional matters in response to the FORM. The case was forwarded to the 
Hearing Office on August 13, 2025, and assigned to me on November 18, 2025. 
Several names and other facts have been modified to protect Applicant’s privacy 
interests. More detailed facts can be found in the record. 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s SOR response, he admits the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a – 1.e and 
denies the allegation in SOR ¶ 2.a. Applicant’s admissions are accepted as findings of 
fact. (Item 1) 
Applicant is 33 years old. He is being sponsored for a security clearance by his 
employer, a DOD contractor. He was worked for his employer since December 2022. This 
is his first time applying for a security clearance. He has no military experience. His 
highest level of education is a bachelor’s degree. He is single, resides with his girlfriend 
and has no children. (Item 2) 
The SOR alleges under Guideline H that Applicant used ecstasy and MDMA with 
varying frequency from about October 2015 to about May 2024 (SOR ¶ 1 .a: Item 3 at 2, 
13); he used a hallucinogenic drug (LSD) in about July 2023 (SOR ¶ 1.b: Item 3 at 2, 13); 
he used cocaine with varying frequency from about July 2015 to September 2016 (SO R 
¶ 1.c: Item 3 at 2 ); he used marijuana with varying frequency from about May 2010 to 
October 2023 (SOR ¶ 1.d : Item 3 at 2); and he used hallucinogenic mushrooms (also 
known as psilocybin) in about November 2023. (SOR ¶ 1.e: Item 3 at 2) 
The SOR also alleges under Guideline E that Applicant falsified material facts on 
an Electronic Questionnaire for Investigations Processing (e- QIP) executed by him on 
June 24, 2024, in response to the following question – Section 23 – Illegal use of Drugs 
or Drug Activ ity – Illegal Use of Drugs or Controlled Substances, “In the last seven (7) 
years, have you illegally used any drugs or controlled substances? Use of a drug or 
controlled substance includes injecting, snorting, inhaling, swallowing, or experimenting 
with or otherwise consuming any drug or controlled substance?” He answered, “Yes” and 
listed his illegal use of ecstasy/MDMA as alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a and his illegal use of LSD 
as alleged in SOR ¶ 1.b. He deliberately failed to disclose the full extent of his illegal use 
of drugs or controlled substances by omitting his use of marijuana and psilocybin 
2 
 
 
 
    
  
  
 
    
   
  
    
    
  
  
  
    
 
   
   
 
    
 
   
    
   
   
  
   
    
 
    
    
     
 
    
   
      
   
  
 
    
      
   
   
     
mushrooms, as set forth in subparagraphs 1.d and 1.e of the SOR dated March 27, 2025. 
(SOR ¶ 2.a: Item 2 at 39-40) 
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Abuse   
Applicant began to use illegal drugs starting in May 2010, when he used marijuana. 
He used marijuana on various occasions from May 2010 and about October 2023. He 
would estimate the average amount of marijuana use occurred between zero to five times 
a year. He abstained from marijuana use at least four years between May 2010 and 
October 2023 because he did not like the e ffects of marijuana. He used marijuana with 
friends and with his brother. Marijuana was legal in the state where he previously resided, 
though it remains illegal under federal law. Marijuana laws are more stringent in the state 
where he currently resides and works. He does not intend to use marijuana in the future. 
(Item 1, Response to SOR at 3; Item 3 at 2) 
From approximately July 2015 to approximately September 2016, Applicant used 
cocaine on two occasions. On each occasion, he was offered cocaine from an 
acquaintance. He does not intend to use cocaine in the future. ( SOR ¶ 1.c: Item 1, 
Response to SOR at 2-3; Item 3 at 2) 
From approximately October 2015 to approximately May 2024, Applicant used 
ecstasy and MDMA with varying frequency. He first used ecstasy at a music festival with 
friends. He used it again in 2017 with a friend while they were at a nightclub. He has not 
seen this friend since 2018. The last time he used ecstasy/MDMA was at a music festival 
with his girlfriend around May 2024. They were offered the drug by friends who were with 
them at the music festival. He does not intend to use ecstasy/MDMA in the future. (SOR 
¶ 1.a: Item 1, Response to SOR at 1-2; Item 3 at 2,13) 
In approximately July 2023, Applicant and his girlfriend experimented with LSD 
while away for the weekend with three other couples. Some were his girlfriend’s former 
co-workers who worked in the medical field. One couple acted as caretakers and guides 
for the individuals who wanted to try LSD. Each person received a dose of LSD in a safe 
and controlled setting. He has not seen any of the participants in over a year. He and his 
girlfriend moved out of the area and no longer have contact with any of the participants. 
Applicant says his LSD use was an experimental one- time use. Neither he nor his 
girlfriend intend to use LSD in the future. (Item SOR ¶ 1.b: Item 1, Response to SOR at 
2; Item 3 at 2,13) 
In November 2023, Applicant use psilocybin while on a trip with his girlfriend to 
another country where psilocybin use for medicinal purposes is legal. He and his girlfriend 
researched this on the internet. After checking into their hotel, they found a local 
dispensary and inquired about how to obtain a prescription for psilocybin. A nurse 
employed at the dispensary provided Applicant a list of symptoms that could be treated 
3 
 
 
 
    
     
   
   
    
   
      
 
  
  
   
   
    
   
      
 
    
 
 
    
   
     
  
    
    
   
  
  
 
      
  
  
   
        
  
      
  
 
     
  
   
 
with psilocybin. He checked off “anxiety” on the list. He was deemed eligible for medical 
therapy. His girlfriend was also deemed eligible. They asked advice from the nurses about 
what to purchase for their first dose. His girlfriend purchased on e gram of psilocybin, for 
about 10 US dollars. They took it back to their hotel room and split the dosage. They each 
took approximately 0.5 grams of psilocybin. They then watched movies and walked 
around the city. Applicant describes his psilocybin use as isolated. He does not intend to 
use it in the future. (Item SOR ¶ 1.e: Item 1, Response to SOR at 3-4; Item 3 at 2) 
Applicant stated t hat he intends to abstain from all illegal drug use and 
acknowledged that any future involvement or misuse would be grounds for denial or 
revocation of his security clearance in both his response to interrogatories and in his 
response to the SOR. He indicates his drug usage was recreational and occurred in safe 
social settings. He claims that his illegal drug use was so infrequent that he did not 
develop any habits or cravings . He is now in a stable and secure financial situation. He 
and his girlfriend agreed that the misuse of illegal drugs does not have a place in their 
future. They hope to have children someday. He has become involved in his local 
community. His current friends are non-drug users. (Items 1 and 3) 
Guideline E  –  Personal Conduct  
  
In r
esponse to Section 23 - Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity on his security 
clearance application dated June 24, 2024, Applicant answered, “Yes.” He listed his use 
of ecstasy/MDMA at raves and clubs once every 3-5 years on 3 separate occasions from 
October 2015 to May 2024. He also listed his one- time use of LSD in July 2023. He did 
not list his use of marijuana on various occasions from approximately May 2010 to about 
October 2023 and his one- time use of psilocybin in about November 2023. The 
Government alleged that he deliberately falsified his security clearance application by 
deliberately omitting his illegal use of marijuana and psilocybin. 
In his response to the SOR, Applicant denied this allegation. He believed that he 
did not need to list his use of marijuana and psilocybin because he used both drugs in a 
jurisdiction where use of each drug was legal at the time he used it . He did not realize 
that he had misread the question in section 23 until he received the SOR. He realizes that 
he made a mistake. It is noted that he listed his use of marijuana and psilocybin in 
response to DOHA interrogatories, dated February 27, 2025. He also listed a two- time 
use of cocaine from approximately July 2015 to approximately September 2016. He was 
not required to list his cocaine use on his security clearance application because the use 
occurred more than seven years before he completed the security clearance application. 
In the same response to the interrogatories, he indicated that he first became aware that 
marijuana was federally illegal in February 2025 , during his security clearance 
background investigation. (Item 2, Item 3) 
Policies  
4 
 
 
 
    
 
     
   
 
  
    
  
  
  
    
      
  
    
 
   
  
 
 
     
    
   
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
 
   
 
 
    
 
   
  
   
  
  
It is well established that no one has a right to a security clearance. As the 
Supreme Court held, “the clearly consistent standard indicates that security 
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy 
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988). 
The adjudicative guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all av ailable, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 
2(b) requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for access to 
classified information will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this 
decision, I have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on 
the evidence contained in the record. Likewise, I have avoided drawing inferences 
grounded on mere speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel, and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable security decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
that an applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
DOD and Federal Government Policy on  Marijuana Use  
On October 25, 2014, the Director for National Intelligence issued a memorandum 
titled, “Adherence to Federal Laws Prohibiting Marijuana Use” addressing concerns 
raised by the decriminalization of marijuana use in several states and the District of 
Columbia. The memorandum states that changes to state and local laws do not alter the 
existing National Security Adjudicative Guidelines. “An individual’s disregard for federal 
law pertaining to the use, sale, or manufacture of marijuana remains adjudicatively 
relevant in national security determinations.” 
5 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
   
   
 
 
      
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
    
  
  
  
  
 
   
   
 
 
 
On May 26, 2015, the Director of the United States Office of Personnel 
Management (OPM) issued a memorandum titled, “Federal Laws and Policies Prohibiting 
Marijuana Use.” The Director of OPM acknowledged that several jurisdictions have 
decriminalized the use of marijuana, allowing the use of marijuana for medicinal purposes 
and/or for limited recreational use but states that federal law on marijuana remains 
unchanged. Marijuana is categorized as a controlled substance under Schedule I of the 
Controlled Substances Act. Thus, knowing or intentional marijuana possession is 
federally illegal, even if the individual has no intent to manufacture, distribute, or dispense 
marijuana. 
On December  21, 2021, the Director of National Intelligence signed the  
memorandum,  Security Executive Agent Clarifying Guidance Concerning Marijuana for  
Agencies Conducting Adjudications of Persons Proposed for Eligibility for Access to  
Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position.  It emphasizes that federal  
law remains unchanged with respect to the illegal use,  possession, production, and  
distribution of  marijuana. Individuals who hold a clearance or occupy a sensitive position  
are prohibited by law from using controlled substances. Disregard of  federal law  
pertaining to marijuana (including prior recreational  marijuana use) remains relevant,  but  
not  determinative, to adjudications  of  eligibility. Agencies are required to use the “whole-
person concept” stated under SEAD 4, to determine whether the applicant’s behavior  
raises a security concern that has not been mitigated.  
Analysis  
Guideline H: Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse   
AG ¶ 24 expresses the security concern for drug involvement: 
The illegal use of controlled substances . . . can raise questions about an 
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. 
I have considered the disqualifying conditions for drug involvement and substance 
misuse under AG ¶ 25 and the following are potentially applicable: 
AG ¶  25(a) any substance misuse;  a
 nd  
AG ¶  25(c)  illegal  pos session of a controlled substance, including  
cultivation, processing, manufacture,  purchase, sale, or distribution; or  
possession of drug paraphernalia.   
6 
 
 
 
     
  
   
 
  
  
     
      
  
   
    
   
  
 
   
   
     
 
 
 
    
  
   
    
  
         
      
 
  
 
Both AG ¶¶ 25(a) and 25(c) apply. Applicant has a history of illegal drug use. He 
admits to using marijuana on various occasions over a 13- year period starting 
approximately in May 2010 to about October 2 023. While marijuana was legal in the 
jurisdiction where he resided, it remained illegal under federal law. He also used cocaine 
on two occasions between July 2015 and September 2016; LSD on one occasion in July 
2023; and psilocybin on one occasion in November 2023. He also used ecstasy/MDMA 
on several occasions from about October 2015 to May 2024. 
The Government’s substantial evidence and Applicant’s admissions raise security 
concerns under Guideline H. The burden shifted to Applicant to produce evidence to 
rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the security concerns. (Directive ¶ E3.1.15) An 
applicant has the burden of proving a mitigating condition, and the burden of disproving 
it never shifts to the Government. (See ISCR Case No. 02-31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sept. 22, 
2005)) 
The guideline also includes examples of conditions that could mitigate security 
concerns arising from drug involvement and substance misuse . The following mitigating 
conditions under AG ¶ 26 potentially apply: 
AG ¶ 26(a)  the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or  
hap
pened under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or does not  
cast doubt  on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  
judgment; and  
AG ¶ 26( b) the  individual acknowledges his  or her drug involvement and  
substance misuse,  provides evidence on actions taken to overcome this  
problem, and has established a p  attern of abstinence,  including, but  not  
limited to:  (1) disassociation from drug- using associates and contacts;  (2)  
changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were used; and (3)  
providing a signed statement  of intent to abstain from  all drug involvement  
and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future involvement or  
misuse  is grounds for revocation of national security eligibility.   
AG ¶
 26(a) applies with respect to Applicant’s use of cocaine in the 2015-20 16 
time-frame. (SOR ¶ 1.c) His cocaine use was experimental (only two times) and m ore 
than nine years have passed since his last use of cocaine. There has been a significant 
passage of time to conclude his cocaine use is not an issue. AG ¶ 26(a) does not apply 
to the remaining SOR allegations because of Applicant’s history of illegal drug abuse and 
his continued illegal use of drugs after becoming employed by a DOD contractor in 
December 2022. His usage of ecstasy/MDMA, LSD, marijuana and psilocybin while 
employed with a DOD contractor raises questions about Applicant’s judgment, 
trustworthiness, and reliability. 
7 
 
 
 
    
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
     
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
  
     
     
AG 26(b) partially applies in that Applicant has fully admitted his illegal drug use 
and has expressed his intent to abstain from all illegal drug involvement and use in the 
future. He acknowledged that any future illegal drug use is ground for revocation of access 
to classified information. This mitigating condition is given less weight because his illegal 
drug involvement continued after his employment with a DOD contractor and his illegal 
drug involvement continued to at least May 2024, less than two years ago. Not enough 
time has passed to conclude that his intentions to refrain from illegal drug use will be 
successful. 
Guideline E: Personal Conduct  
The concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. T he following will normally result in an 
unfavorable national security eligibility determination, security clearance 
action, or cancellation of further processing for national security eligibility: 
(a) refusal,  or
 failure without reasonable cause, to undergo or cooperate  
with security processing, including but not limited to meeting with a security  
investigator for subject interview, completing security forms or releases,  
cooperation with medical or  psychological evaluation,  or polygraph  
examination, if  authorized and required; and  
(b) refusal to provide full, frank,  and  truthful  answers to lawful  questions  of  
investigators, security officials, or other official representatives in  
connection with a personnel security  or trustworthiness  determination.  
AG 
¶ 16: Conditions that could raise a security concern and may be disqualifying 
include: 
AG ¶ 16(a): deliberate omission, concealment, or falsification of relevant  
facts from any  personnel  security  questionnaire, personal history  statement,  
or similar form used to conduct investigations, determine employment  
qualifications, award benefits or status, determine national security  eligibility  
or trustworthiness,  or award fiduciary responsibilities.  
I find for Applicant under the personal conduct concern. While he omitted his 
marijuana use and psilocybin use on his June 2024 security clearance application in 
response to Section 23 – Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity – Illegal Use of Drugs or 
Controlled Substances, his omission was an oversight. AG ¶ 16( a) only applies if the 
8 
 
 
 
      
      
      
   
    
   
    
 
   
  
 
  
 
    
   
 
 
   
  
 
 
    
  
    
   
    
    
 
    
     
    
 
  
  
omission is deliberate. I find Applicant’s explanation that he misread the language in 
Section 23 – Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity – Illegal Use of Drugs or Controlled 
Substances on his June 2024 security clearance application to be plausible. He fully 
disclosed his use of ecstasy/MDMA and LSD on the June 2024 security clearance 
application. In response to interrogatories, he listed all of his illegal drug use to include 
his use of marijuana and psilocybin. He did not intend to deliberately mislead the 
government by omitting his marijuana use and one-time use of psilocybin in his response 
to Section 23 on his June 2024 security clearance application. The Personal Conduct 
security concern is found for Applicant. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a public trust position by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration of 
the guidelines and the whole- person concept. I considered the potentially disqualifying 
and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances surrounding this case. 
I have incorporated my comments under Guidelines H and E and the AG ¶ 2(d) factors in 
this whole-person analysis. Because Applicant requested a determination on the record 
without a hearing, I had no opportunity to evaluate his credibility and sincerity based on 
demeanor. Insufficient time has passed since his last use of illegal drugs to overcome the 
extent and seriousness of his conduct. See ISCR Case No. 01 -12350 at 3- 4 (App. Bd. 
Jul. 23, 2003). 
I considered Applicant’s employment with a DOD contactor since December 2022. 
I considered that he is applying for a security clearance for the first time. I considered that 
while he omitted his one- time use of psilocybin and his history of marijuana use on his 
June 2024 security clearance application, his explanation that he misread the questions 
in Section 26 is plausible. I considered he provided full disclosure about his illegal drug 
use, to include marijuana and psilocybin, in his response to interrogatories in February 
9 
 
 
 
   
 
   
   
    
     
 
  
    
   
  
 
 
      
    
 
   
 
  
    
   
  
 
           
   
 
    
  
  
                                                
 
  
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
2025. I considered that his last use of an illegal drug ( ecstasy/MDMA) occurred in May 
2024. It has been only 18 months . Considering his history of illegal drug abuse, n ot 
enough time has passed to conclude he is serious about his intention to refrain from illegal 
drug use. After weighing the disqualifying and mitigating conditions under Guideline H 
and evaluating all the evidence in the context of the whole person, I conclude Applicant 
has not mitigated the security concerns raised by his conduct under Guideline H. 
This decision should not be construed as a determination that Applicant cannot or 
will not attain the state of reform necessary for award of a security clearance in the future. 
With more effort towards maintaining a drug-free lifestyle , he may well be able to 
demonstrate persuasive evidence of his security clearance worthiness. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  G
 uideline H:   AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a,  1.b,  1.d, 1.e:    Against  Applicant   
Subparagraph 1.c:   For Applicant  
Paragraph 2,  Guideline E:   FOR APPLICANT  
Subparagraph 2.a:     F or Applicant   
Conclusion  
In l
ight of all of the circumstances presented, it is not clearly consistent with the 
interests of national security to grant or continue Applicant’s eligibility for access to 
classified information. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Erin C. Hogan 
Administrative Judge 
10 