 
 
                                      
 
    DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
   DEFENSE  OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS      
           
             
 
 
 
                
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
   
 
 
      
       
      
          
      
        
       
        
      
  
 
        
         
______________ 
______________ 
In the  matter of:  )  
 )  
  )                    ISCR Case  No.  24-01079              
  )  
Applicant for Security Clearance  )  
Appearances  
For Government: William H. Miller, Esquire, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
01/28/2025 
Decision  
GALES, Robert Robinson, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant mitigated the security concerns regarding handling protected information 
and personal conduct. Eligibility for a security clearance is granted. 
Statement of the  Case  
On October 30, 2017, Applicant applied for a security clearance and submitted a 
Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86). On July 18, 2024, the Defense 
Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) Consolidated Adjudication Services 
(CAS), renamed the DCSA Adjudication Vetting Services (AVS), issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to him under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified 
Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended and modified; DoD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended and modified (Directive); and Directive 4 of the Security Executive 
Agent (SEAD 4), National Security Adjudicative Guidelines (December 10, 2016) (AG), 
effective June 8, 2017. 
The SOR alleged security concerns under Guideline K (Handling Protected 
Information) and Guideline E (Personal Conduct), and detailed reasons why the DCSA 
1 
 
 
                                      
 
       
       
        
 
 
             
           
     
          
               
        
          
         
             
        
    
 
           
         
        
      
        
         
  
 
 
       
         
        
          
   
 
 
       
       
         
          
    
 
        
        
         
         
adjudicators were unable to find that it is clearly consistent with t he national interest to 
grant or continue a security clearance for Applicant. The SOR recommended referral to 
an administrative judge to determine whether a clearance should be granted, continued, 
denied, or revoked. 
On July 29, 2024, Applicant responded to the SOR and elected to have h is case 
decided on the written record in lieu of a hearing . A complete copy of the Government’s 
file of relevant material (FORM) , including proposed Government Exhibits, identified as 
Items, was mailed to him by the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals ( DOHA) on 
September 5, 2024, and he was afforded an opportunity, within a period of 30 days, to 
file objections and submit material in refutation, extenuation, or mitigation. In addition to 
the FORM, he was furnished a copy of the Directive as well as the Adjudicative Guidelines 
applicable to h is case. Applicant received the FORM on September 25 , 20 24. His 
response was due on October 25, 2024. Applicant chose not to respond to the FORM, 
for as of November 8, 2024, no response had been received. The case was assigned to 
me on December 6, 2024, and there was still no response to the FORM. 
Findings of Fact  
In his Answer to t he SOR, Applicant admitted, with comments, the factual 
allegations pertaining to handling protected information (SOR ¶¶ 1.a. through 1.c.). He 
failed to address the factual allegations pertaining to personal conduct (SOR ¶ 2.a.) so 
his failure to comment on those allegations has been treated as though he denied them. 
Applicant’s admissions and comments are incorporated herein. After a complete and 
thorough review of the evidence in the record, and upon due consideration of same, I 
make the following findings of fact: 
Background  
Applicant is a 64-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been serving 
as a principal process engineer since February 1979. He received a bachelor’s degree in 
1988 and a master’s degree in 1998. He has never served with the U.S. military. He has 
held a secret clearance since at least 2001. He was married in 1991. He has two adult 
children, born in 1993 and 1996. 
Handling Protected Information  and Personal Conduct  
On March 15, 2018 , Applicant signed a Classified Information Nondisclosure 
Agreement under which he accepted the legal responsibilities and obligations (including 
proper procedures to be followed) associated with being granted access to classified 
information. One of those responsibilities covered negligent handling of classified 
information. (Item 7) 
SOR ¶ 1.c. refers to an incident that occurred on July 13, 2020 , when Applicant 
failed to properly secure classified materials when he removed classified hard drives from 
test equipment that was scheduled to go out to calibration and placed the drives in an 
unlocked cabinet in the closed area , not approved for open storage . He had difficulty 
2 
 
 
                                      
 
         
       
        
           
      
          
      
  
 
       
        
         
           
        
        
            
               
            
 
 
        
     
        
       
         
 
 
        
            
              
          
           
        
          
          
         
      
            
            
     
 
           
            
          
  
 
opening the security container in the area after trying several times and he purportedly 
did not seek immediate security assistance to properly store the drives. He noted that the 
secure safe had an older mechanical combination mechanism and that unlocking and 
opening the older safe had been very problematic prior to the alleged incident. A newer 
safe/container had been requested several times but no replacement was apparently 
provided. Applicant claimed that the cabinet he chose to store the hard drives was just as 
secure as they would have been had they remained in the test equipment rack because 
everything was still in a closed area. 
Applicant disputed the incident report wherein it stated that he did not self-report 
or attempt to seek immediate security assistance, and he claimed that upon closing the 
lab, he sent an email to program and security indicating his situation. It was suggested 
that he bring the hard drives to another safe with a security guard at the entry to the 
building, b ut the security guard could not open his safe/container of the same type. 
Applicant concluded that the hard drive s remaining in the storage cabinet within the 
secured closed area was adequate protection for the evening and the issue could be 
resolved in the morning with security personnel. (Item 2 at 3; Item 6 at 4) Applicant did 
not submit any documentary evidence such as a copy of his emails to program and 
security or any previous requests for a working safe/container. 
As a result of the incident, Applicant received a security violation for failing to 
properly secure classified information in an approved container. This was his first security 
violation with his employer . He was re-briefed regarding safeguarding procedures and 
reminded of his continued responsibility to protect classified information. (Item 6 at 4) 
There is no allegation or evidence that Applicant’s actions led to the loss , compromise, 
or suspected compromise to classified information. 
SOR ¶ 1.b. refers to an incident that occurred two months later, on September 17, 
2020, when Applicant alarmed the closed area but failed to properly secure the area by 
not engaging the lock on the door as required. He signed the closed area check record 
indicating the room was alarmed and the lock was engaged. The unlocked door was 
discovered by a security officer and a review of the card swipes and the closed area check 
record revealed that Applicant was the last individual to occupy the closed area. Applicant 
said he felt positive that he properly secured the closed area and struggled with accepting 
the mistake. He estimated having opened and closed the secure lab 2 ,008 times during 
the four years of working on the program, and the single incident is about 0.05% of those 
times. He claimed his closing routine is generally very rigorous by checking for re -entry 
twice after spinning lock, and he had a hard time believ ing that it was left un -spun, but 
that he may have been distracted during the process of closing by conversations with 
colleagues. (Item 2 at 2; Item 4; Item 6 at 3) 
As a result of the incident, Applicant received a second security violation and he 
was required to take closed area training again and for one month he was required to 
have a “lock up buddy.” The employer reported that the incident did not involve the loss, 
compromise, or suspected compromise to classified information. (Item 4) 
3 
 
 
                                      
 
          
      
       
         
            
       
          
          
          
          
          
       
 
 
 
       
       
   
        
        
      
      
        
          
     
     
     
      
    
         
 
 
       
        
         
     
    
       
           
 
 
        
       
           
          
SOR ¶ 1.a. refers to four separate incidents that occurred on July 20, 2022 ; July 
26, 2022; August 3, 2022; and November 23, 2022 , when Applicant conducted Assured 
File Transfers (AFTs) but failed to log his actions in the media log as required, violating 
at least two employer policies . Applicant claims he performed 154 AFTs during the 
program and security forms were submitted for each AFT, signed by two levels of 
management and security officer prior to executing an AFT. He suspected that he may 
have forgotten to make the entries due to interruptions of his routine by colleagues 
requesting information from him or simply needing to attend to other duties such as testing 
hardware in t he closed area before getting to the log . As a result of his violations , he 
received a written warning on December 19, 2022 , and was retrained on his 
responsibilities to properly log AFTs. (Item 2 at 2; Item 5; Item 6 at 2) There is no allegation 
or evidence that Applicant’s actions led to the loss, compromise, or suspected 
compromise to classified information. 
Policies  
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion of the Executive 
Branch in regulating access to information pertaining to national security emphasizing, 
“no one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” (Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 
518, 528 (1988) ) As Commander in Chief, t he President has t he authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual 
is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information. T he President has 
authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant an appl icant eligibility for 
access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly consistent with the 
national interest to do so.” (Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended and modified.) 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, t he 
administrative judge must consider t he guidelines in SEAD 4 . In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, t he guidelines list potentially disqualifying 
conditions and mitigating conditions, which are used in evaluating an applicant’s eligibility 
for access to classified information. 
An administrative judge need not view t he guidelines as inflexible, ironclad rules 
of law. Instead, acknowledging the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with t he factors listed in t he adjudicative process. T he 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
decision. The entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of several variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” T he administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable, and unfavorable, in making a 
meaningful decision. 
In t he decision-making process, facts must be establis hed by “substantial 
evidence.” “Substantial evidence [is] such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might 
accept as adequate to support a conclusion in light of all contrary evidence in the record.” 
(ISCR Case No. 04 -11463 at 2 (App. Bd. Aug. 4, 2006) (citing Directive ¶ E3.1.32.1) ). 
4 
 
 
                                      
 
 
          
        
       
          
         
      
          
 
  
         
   
   
          
        
      
     
      
    
      
 
 
 
 
        
  
  
          
      
       
      
        
         
“Substantial evidence”  is “more than  a  scintilla but less than  a  preponderance.”  (See  v.  
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth., 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th  Cir. 1994))  
The Government initially has t he burden of producing evidence to establish a 
potentially disqualifying condition under the Directive and has the burden of establishing 
controverted facts alleged in t he SOR. Once the Government has produced substantial 
evidence of a disqualifying condition, under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant has t he 
burden of persuasion to present evidence in refutation, explanation, extenuation, or 
mitigation, sufficient to overcome t he doubts raised by t he Government’s case. T he 
burden of disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to t he Government. (See ISCR 
Case No. 02-31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005)) 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters a fiduciary relationship 
with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship transcends 
normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours as well. It is because of this 
special relationship that t he Government must be able to repose a high degree of trust 
and confidence in those individuals to whom it grants access to classified information. 
Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of t he possible risk t he applicant may 
deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. Such decisions entail 
a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to potential, rat her than actual, 
risk of compromise of classified information. Furt hermore, “security clearance 
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” (Egan, 484 U.S. at 531) 
Clearance  decisions must be  “in  terms of the  national interest  and  shall  in no  sense  
be  a  determination  as  to  the  loyalty  of  the  applicant concerned.”  (See  Exec. Or. 10865 §  
7) Thus, nothing  in  this decision  should be  construed  to  suggest that I have  based  this  
decision, in whole or in part, on  any express  or implied  determination  as to  Applicant’s  
allegiance, loyalty, or patriotism. It is merely  an  indication  the  Applicant has or has not  
met  the  strict guidelines t he  President, Secretary of Defense, and  Director of National  
Intelligence  have  established  for issuing  a  clearance.  In  reaching  this decision, I  have  
drawn only those  conclusions that are reasonable, logical,  and  based  on  the  evidence  
contained  in  the  record. Likewise,  I have  avoided  drawing  inferences grounded  on  mere  
speculation  or conjecture.  
Analysis  
Guideline  K, Handling Protected Information  
The security concern relating to t he guideline for Handling Protected Information 
is set out in AG ¶ 33: 
The Concern. Deliberate or negligent failure to comply with rules and 
regulations for handling protected information -which includes 
classified and other sensitive government information, and 
proprietary information -raises doubt about an individual's 
trustworthiness, judgment, reliability, or willingness and ability to 
safeguard such information, and is a serious security concern. 
5 
 
 
                                      
 
         
    
 
 
 
 
 
          
       
          
          
      
          
         
   
        
         
         
       
          
          
       
     
 
     
   
 
 
 
The guideline also includes some conditions that could raise security 
concerns under AG ¶ 34: 
(b)  collecting  or  storing  protected  information  in  any  unauthorized  
location;  
(g) any  failure  to  comply  with  rules  for  the  protection  of  classified  or  
sensitive  information;  
(h) negligence  or  lax  security  practices  that  persist  despite  counseling  
by  management;  and  
(i) failure  to  comply  with  rules or regulations  that results  in  damage  to 
the  national security,  regardless  of whether it was deliberate  or  
negligent.  
AG ¶¶ 34(b) and 34(g) have been established . Applicant ’s negligent and 
inadvertent actions resulted in six security violations during a two -year period. There is 
no evidence that any of the incidents involved the loss, compromise, or suspected 
compromise to classified information, thus negating the application of AG ¶ 34(i). Two of 
those violations – the July 2020 failure to properly secure classified materials in a locked 
cabinet in a closed area, and the September 2020 failure to properly secure a closed area 
by engaging the lock on the door – were isolated types of violations that, after receiving 
written warnings and completing retraining from his employer, were never repeated. The 
other four violations, on July 20, 2022; July 26, 2022; August 3, 2022; and November 23, 
2022 – were, after the first violation, repeated failures to log in his AFTs . It appears that 
the employer did not issue Applicant written warnings or require retraining after the first 
such violation, but apparently waited until December 19, 2022, well after the November 
2022 violation to do so. Because Applicant’s negligence or lax security practices , in 
general, continued after he received his initial warning and retraining, and he should have 
become more attentive to his responsibilities, while the violations were not of the identical 
type, they did persist even after he went through retraining, establishing AG ¶ 34(h). 
The guideline also includes some conditions that could mitigate security concerns 
under AG ¶ 35: 
(a)  so  much  time  has  elapsed  since  the  behavior,  or  it  has  happened 
so  infrequently or  under  such  unusual  circumstances,  that  it  is  
unlikely to  recur  and  does  not  cast doubt on  the  individual's  current  
reliability,  trustworthiness,  or  good  judgment;  
(b)  the  individual  responded  favorably  to  counseling  or  remedial  
security  training  and  now demonstrates  a  positive  attitude  toward  the  
discharge  of  security  responsibilities;  
6 
 
 
                                      
 
 
 
   
            
             
             
         
    
          
           
         
          
       
 
 
           
         
        
        
         
          
        
    
 
  
     
            
         
        
          
       
           
            
          
         
         
     
 
          
  
       
             
(c)  the  security  violations  were  due  to  improper  or  inadequate  training  
or  unclear  instructions;  and  
(d) the  violation  was  inadvertent,  it  was promptly  reported,  there  is  no 
evidence  of compromise,  and it does not suggest a pattern.  
On July 13, 2020, Applicant failed to properly secure classified materials when he 
placed hard drives in an unlocked cabinet in a closed area, not approved for open storage. 
Because he experienced difficulty in opening the security container in the area after trying 
several times, and was unable to access another appropriate one, he decided to use an 
inappropriate cabinet because it was protected in the closed area. The isolated situation 
occurred under unusual circumstances regarding his repeated requests of his employer 
to furnish a newer safe/container to replace the one that was frequently difficult to use . 
The inappropriate container was located inside the closed area , but its use was still 
considered a security violation. The record is silent as to whether there were clear 
instructions or adequate training to employees in the event such a situation should arise. 
Applicant responded favorably to remedial security training and a similar security violation 
has not reoccurred. 
With regard to his September 2020 failure to properly secure the closed area, as 
required, Applicant estimated having opened and closed the secure lab 2 ,008 times 
during the four years of working on the program, and the single alleged incident is about 
0.05% of those times. He claimed his closing routine is generally very rigorous by 
checking for re-entry twice after spinning the lock, but that on this one occasion, he may 
have been distracted during the process of closing by conversations with colleagues. In 
any event, Applicant responded favorably to remedial security training and a similar 
security violation has not reoccurred. 
There were four separate incidents that occurred on July 20, 2022; July 26, 2022; 
August 3, 2022; and November 23, 2022, when Applicant conducted AFTs but failed to 
log his actions in the media log as required, violating at least two employer policies. 
Applicant claimed he performed 154 AFTs during the program and security forms were 
submitted for each AFT, signed by two levels of management and security officer prior to 
executing an AFT. The violations were inadvertent, and he suspected that he may have 
forgotten to make the entries due to interruptions of his routine by colleagues requesting 
information from him or simply needing to attend to other duties such as testing hardware 
in the closed area before getting to the log. Although the violations were repeated, with 
the first two taking place in July 2022, his employer apparently took no corrective action 
until December 2022 – approximately five months after the first such violation – to issue 
a written warning and start retraining. Applicant responded favorably to remedial security 
training and a similar security violation has not reoccurred. 
With respect to all of Applicant’s security violations, there is no allegation or 
evidence that Applicant’s actions led to the loss, compromise, or suspected compromise 
to classified information. Additionally, while there were multiple diverse security violations, 
all of them were inadvertent and considering the length of time Applicant has had his 
7 
 
 
                                      
 
     
    
 
 
       
  
 
    
      
    
      
    
   
  
  
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
responsibilities, his actions do not suggest a pattern of inappropriate procedures. 
Accordingly, AG ¶¶ 35(a), 35(b), 35(c), and 35(d) have been established. 
Guideline E, Personal Conduct  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Personal Conduct is set out in 
AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to 
cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes. The following will normally result in 
an unfavorable national security eligibility determination, security clearance 
action, or cancellation of further processing for national security eligibility: 
(a) refusal, or failure without reasonable  cause, to  undergo  or cooperate  
with  security processing, including  but not limited  to  meeting  with  a  security  
investigator for subject interview, completing  security forms or releases,  
cooperation  with  medical or psychological evaluation, or polygraph  
examination, if authorized and required; and  
(b) refusal  to  provide  full, frank, and  truthful  answers to  lawful questions of  
investigators, security officials, or other  official representatives in  
connection with a  personnel security or trustworthiness determination.  
The guideline also includes conditions that could raise security concerns under AG 
¶ 16: 
(c)  credible  adverse information  in several adjudicative issue  areas  that is  
not sufficient  for an  adverse determination  under any other single guideline,  
but which, when  considered  as a  whole, supports a  whole-person  
assessment  of  questionable  judgment, untrustworthiness,  unreliability, lack  
of candor, unwillingness to  comply  with  rules and  regulations,  or other 
characteristics indicating  that  the  individual  may  not properly safeguard  
classified or sensitive information; and  
(d) credible  adverse  information  in  that is not  explicitly covered  under any  
other guideline  and  may  not  be  sufficient by itself for an  adverse  
determination, but which, when  combined  with  all  available  information,  
supports a  whole-person  assessment of questionable judgment,  
untrustworthiness, unreliability, lack of candor, unwillingness to  comply with  
rules and  regulations, or other characteristics  indicating  that the  individual  
may not  properly safeguard classified  or sensitive  information. This  
includes, but is not limited to, consideration of:   
8 
 
 
                                      
 
 
 
 
 
          
    
 
 
         
      
       
   
  
 
       
       
       
   
           
                 
  
         
         
       
      
          
        
      
        
   
(1) untrustworthy  or unreliable behavior to  include  breach  
of client confidentiality,  release  of proprietary information,  
unauthorized  release  of sensitive corporate  or government  
protected information;  
(2) any disruptive, violent,  or other inappropriate  behavior;  
(3) a  pattern of dishonesty or rule violations; and  
(4) evidence of significant misuse of Government or other  
employer’s time or resources.  
All of the security concerns alleged under Guideline E in the SOR are covered 
under Guideline K. AG ¶¶ 16(c) and 16(d) do not apply. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under t he whole-person concept, t he administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all t he circumstances. The administrative judge should consider t he nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at SEAD 4, App. A, ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the  time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  
and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct;  
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.  
Under SEAD 4, App. A, ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole -person concept. Moreover, I have 
evaluated the various aspects of this case considering the totality of the record evidence 
and have not merely performed a piecemeal analysis. (See U.S. v. Bottone , 365 F.2d 
389, 392 (2d Cir. 1966); See also ISCR Case No. 03-22861 at 2-3 (App. Bd. Jun. 2, 2006)) 
I have incorporated my comments under Guideline K and Guideline E in my whole-
person analysis, and I have considered the factors in SEAD 4, App. A , ¶¶ 2(c) and 2(d). 
Applicant is a 64-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been serving as a 
principal process engineer since February 1979. He received a bachelor’s degree in 1988 
and a master’s degree in 1998. He has held a secret clearance since at least 2001. In the 
national security environment, I am aware that just one security violation can be 
devastating. While it is clear that Applicant negligently and inadvertently committed 
multiple diverse security violations between July 2020 and November 2022, there is no 
allegation or evidence that Applicant’s actions led to the loss, compromise, or suspected 
9 
 
 
                                      
 
  
   
          
       
  
 
      
     
        
         
  
 
 
        
    
 
     
 
   
 
    
 
       
   
 
        
          
  
 
 
                                      
            
 
 
__________________________ 
compromise to classified information. Moreover, considering the length of time Applicant 
has had his security-related responsibilities, these relatively isolated actions in 2020 and 
2022 do not suggest a pattern of inappropriate procedures. As noted above, after he was 
retrained by his employer , Applicant responded favorably and did not make the same 
mistakes. 
Overall, the evidence leaves me with out substantial questions and doubts as to 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance . For all these reasons, I 
conclude Applicant has mitigate d the security concerns arising from h is handling 
protected information and personal conduct. See SEAD 4, App. A, ¶¶ 2(d) (1) through AG 
2(d) (9). 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  K:  FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a.  through  1.c.:   For Applicant 
Paragraph  2, Guideline  E:  FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  2.a.:  For Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security clearance. 
Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
ROBERT ROBINSON GALES 
Administrative Judge 
10 