 
 
 
 
 
               
 
                   
          
           
             
 
 
 
    
  
      
   
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
      
  
   
    
  
    
  
______________ 
______
________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
"'L 09i~ .t!J~ 0 
"' ;:. "tr 
00 
"" 
In th
e matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-01365 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: George A. Hawkins, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
09/05/2025 
Decision 
FOREMAN, LeRoy F., Administrative Judge: 
This case involves security concerns raised under Guideline F (Financial 
Considerations). Clearance is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on December 21, 2023. 
On October 9, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) sent 
him a Statement of Reasons (SOR) alleging security concerns under Guideline F. The 
DCSA acted under Executive Order ( Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified 
Information within Industry (February 20, 19 60), as amended ; Department of Defense 
(DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) 
promulgated in Security Executive Agent Directive 4, National Security Adjudicative 
Guidelines (December 10, 2016), which became effective on June 8, 2017. 
1 
 
 
 
 
    
    
     
 
  
       
 
 
    
       
 
  
   
      
   
  
   
 
   
     
     
     
   
  
  
 
  
   
   
   
 
    
      
   
   
   
     
  
 
    
    
  
 
    
   
Applicant answered the SOR on December 19, 2024, and requested a decision on 
the written record in lieu of a hearing. Department Counsel submitted the Government’s 
written case on March 31, 2025. A complete copy of the file of relevant material (FORM) 
was sent to Applicant, who was given an opportunity to file objections and submit material 
to refute, extenuate, or mitigate the Government’s evidence. He received the FORM on 
April 15, 2025, and did not respond. The case was assigned to me on August 19, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, 
and 1.g through 1.j. His admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact. 
Applicant is a 43-year-old production inspector employed by a defense contractor 
since December 2017. He worked as an assembler for the same defense contractor from 
July 2006 to April 2008 and from June 2013 to August 2014. He worked as a state 
employee from September 2014 to December 2017. He married in June 2006 and 
divorced in May 2018. He has two children. He received a bachelor’s degree in May 2004. 
He has never held a security clearance. 
SOR¶ 1.a alleges that Applicant failed to file federal income tax returns as required 
for tax years 2017, 2019, 2020, 2021, and 2022. When Applicant was interviewed by a 
security investigator in September 2023, he stated that he did not file his tax returns 
because he was “sidetracked” with work and his home life, and that he was working with 
a tax professional to set up a payment plan. (GX 4 at 3) In his answer to the SOR, he 
stated that he had established a payment plan for his tax debt. However, he provided no 
evidence that the past-due returns had been filed. 
SOR ¶ 1.b alleges that Applicant failed to file state income tax returns as required 
for tax years, 2019, 2020, 2021, and 2022. Applicant admitted this allegation and stated 
that he received a state tax refund for tax year 2023. However, he provided no evidence 
that he had filed the past-due returns for 2019, 2020, 2021, and 2022. 
SOR ¶ 1.c alleges a federal tax debt for delinquent taxes in the amount of $5,106 
for tax year 2023. The debt is reflected in the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) tax transcript 
for tax year 2023. (GX 4 at 16) Applicant denied this debt in his answer to the SOR and 
stated that he had not received any correspondence regarding it. However, in his answer 
to SOR ¶ 1.a, he stated that he had established a payment plan to resolve his tax debt. 
He submitted evidence of a payment plan providing for payments of $100 per month, with 
the first monthly payment due in November 2024. In response to DOHA interrogatories in 
December 2024, he submitted a personal financial statement that reflects net monthly 
income of $3,285, monthly expenses of $3,448, and debt payments of $63.57 on a credit-
card debt and $100 toward his federal income tax liability. However, h e provided no 
evidence that he made the agreed payments. 
SOR ¶¶ 1.d, 1,e, and 1.f allege state tax lien s filed against Applicant in 2012 for 
$1,528; $4,550, and $1,948. Applicant denied these debts in his answer to the SOR and 
2 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
       
 
   
    
   
 
 
     
    
      
   
 
    
    
    
    
 
    
    
    
  
 
 
      
   
  
     
    
  
      
 
 
   
   
    
   
      
    
 
     
  
  
   
stated that he had not received any correspondence regarding them. The tax liens are 
documented in GX 9. He provided no evidence of efforts to resolve them. 
SOR ¶ ¶ 1.g alleges a cellphone bill placed for collection of $1,348. When Applicant 
was interviewed by a security investigator in September 2023, he admitted this debt . It 
was incurred when he changed cellphone providers, knowing that he owed a balance to 
his former provider. (GX 4 at 4) In his answer to the SOR, he admitted that he had taken 
no action to resolve this debt. He promised that he would resolve it by the end of 2025. It 
is not resolved. 
SOR ¶ 1.h alleges a collection account for $635. In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, 
he provided documentary evidence that he had accepted an offer to settle the debt for 
$448.98, to be paid in seven monthly payments of $63.57. However, he did not provide 
evidence that he made any of the agreed payments. 
SOR ¶ 1.i alleges a telecommunication bill placed for collection of $333. This debt 
was for unreturned equipment. In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he provided evidence 
that he resolved this debt by taking advantage of a debt-forgiveness promotional offer to 
forgive past-due debts for debtors who opened a new account. This debt is resolved. 
SOR ¶ 1.j alleges a debt to an insurance company placed for collection of $111. It 
is reflected in a credit report from June 2024. (GX 7) In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, 
he admitted this debt and promised to pay it by the end of 2025. He provided no evidence 
of payments. 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
decision. An a dministrative judge must consider all available and reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
3 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
   
    
   
  
 
   
   
 
    
   
  
   
 
   
   
  
 
   
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865 
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant 
has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have 
established for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan at 531. Substantial 
evidence is “such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to 
support a conclusion in light of all the contrary evidence in the same record.” See I SCR 
Case No. 17- 04166 at 3 (App. Bd. Mar. 21, 2019) . It is “less than the weight of the 
evidence, and the possibility of drawing two inconsistent conclusions from the evidence 
does not prevent [a Judge’s] finding from being supported by substantial evidence.” 
Consolo v. Federal Maritime Comm’n, 383 U.S. 607, 620 (1966). “Substantial evidence” 
is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. Washington Metro. Area 
Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines presume a nexus or 
rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria listed therein and 
an applicant’s security suitability. ISCR Case No. 15-01253 at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 20, 2016).  
Once the  G overnment establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial  
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive  ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of  proving a mitigating condition,  
and the burden of disproving it  never shifts to the  Government.  See  ISCR Case No.  02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep.  22,  2005).   
An  applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent  
with the national interest to grant or continue  his security clearance.”  ISCR Case No.  01-
20700 at  3 (App. Bd.  Dec. 19, 2002).  “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  Egan  at 531.   
Analysis  
Guideline  F, Financial Considerations  
The security concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. . . . An individual who is financially 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
   
  
   
   
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
overextended is at  greater risk of having to engage in illegal  or otherwise 
questionable acts to generate funds.  . . .  
This concern is broader than the possibility that a person might knowingly 
compromise classified information to raise money. It encompasses concerns about a 
person’s self-control, judgment, and other qualities essential to protecting classified 
information. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible, 
unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding classified information. See ISCR 
Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012). 
Applicant’s admissions and the evidence in the FORM establish the following 
disqualifying conditions under this guideline: 
AG ¶  19(a): inability to  sat
 isfy debts;  
AG ¶  19(c): a history of not meeting financial  obli gations;  and  
AG ¶  19(f): f ailure to  file or fraudulently filing  ann ual  federal, state,  or local  
income tax returns or  failure to pay annual  federal, state, or local income  
tax as required.  
The f
ollowing mitigating conditions are potentially applicable: 
AG ¶  20(a): the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or  
occ
urred under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does not  
cast doubt on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good  
judgment;  
AG ¶  20(b):  t he conditions that resulted in the financial  probl em were largely  
beyond the person's control (e.g., loss  of employment, a business  
downturn, unexpected medical  emergency,  a death, divorce or  separation,  
clear victimization by  predatory lending practices,  or identity theft), and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
AG ¶ 20(c): the individual  has r eceived or is  receiving financial counseling  
for the problem from a  legitimate and credible source, such as  a non-profit 
credit counseling service, and there are clear indications that the problem  
is being resolved or is  under control;  
AG ¶ 20(d): the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- fai th effort to  
repay overdue creditors or otherwise resolve  debts;  and  
AG ¶ 20(g): the individual has made arrangements with the appropriate tax  
auth
ority  to file or  pay  the amount  owed and is in compliance with those  
arrangements.  
5 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
       
 
  
    
 
     
   
 
  
 
      
    
   
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
   
 
 
   
  
   
   
   
 
 
      
    
    
AG ¶ 20(a) is not established. Applicant’s delinquent debts are recent, numerous, 
and were not incurred under circumstances making recurrence unlikely. 
AG ¶ 20(b) is not established. Applicant’s tax problems alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.f 
were not due to circumstances largely beyond his control. Rather, they were due to his 
inattention to an important duty. He submitted no evidence of circumstances largely 
beyond his control that caused the delinquent consumer debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.g-1.j. 
AG ¶ 20(c) is not established. Applicant obtained counseling for the federal tax 
problems, but he provided no evidence that they were being resolved or under control. 
He provided no evidence of financial counseling for the delinquent cons umer debts in 
SOR ¶¶ 1.g-1.j. 
AG ¶ 20(d) is established for the cellphone debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.i, which 
Applicant resolved. It is not established for the other debts alleged in the SOR. He 
provided no evidence that he complied with the payment arrangement for his federal tax 
debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.c. He provided no evidence of efforts to resolve the state tax 
debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.d, 1.e, and 1.f. He provided no evidence of actions to resolve 
the consumer debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.g, 1.h, and 1.j. 
AG ¶ 20(g) is not established. Applicant entered into an agreement to resolve the 
federal tax debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.c, but he provided no evidence that he was complying 
with that that agreement. He provided no evidence of efforts to resolve the state tax debts 
alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.d, 1.e, and 1.f. 
Whole-Person  Analysis  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant a security 
clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. An administrative judge must evaluate 
an applicant’s security eligibility by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct and 
all the relevant circumstances. An administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.   
I have incorporated my comments under Guideline F in my whole-person analysis 
and applied the adjudicative factors in AG ¶ 2(d). After weighing the disqualifying and 
mitigating conditions under Guideline F, and evaluating all the evidence in the context of 
6 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
   
 
 
    
 
     
 
     
 
 
  
    
  
 
 
 
  
 
the whole person, I conclude Applicant has not mitigated the security concerns raised by 
his financial problems. 
Formal Findings  
I make the following formal findings on the allegations in the SOR: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline F (Financial Considerations):  AG
AINST APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.h:  Against Applicant  
Subparagraph 1.i:  For Applicant  
Subparagraph 1.j:  Against Applicant  
Conclusion  
I c
onclude that it is not clearly consistent with the national security interests of the 
United States to grant Applicant eligibility for access to classified information. Clearance 
is denied. 
LeRoy F. Foreman 
Administrative Judge 
7 