DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
ISCR Case No. 24-01706 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
Appearance s 
For Government: 
Tara Karoian, Esquire, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: 
Prose 
08/14/2025 
Decision 
CEFOLA, Richard A., Administrative Judge: 
On August 28, 2023, Applicant submitted her Electronic Questionnaire for 
Investigations Processing (e-QIP). On October 17, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence 
and Security Agency Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS) issued Applicant 
a Statement of Reasons (SOR) detailing security concerns under Guideline H (Drug 
Involvement and Substance Misuse). The action was taken under Executive Order 10865, 
Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; 
Department o f Defense Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security 
Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the 
Adjudicative Guidelines effective June 8, 2017. 
1 
 
    
    
  
     
  
   
 
      
  
     
     
  
  
      
     
    
    
 
  
      
   
Applicant answered the SOR in writing on October 31, 2024, and requested a 
hearing before an administrative judge. The Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals 
(DOHA) received the request on or about November 4, 2024. I received the case 
assignment on April 10, 2025. DOHA issued a Notice of Hearing on April 14, 2025, and I 
convened the hearing as scheduled on June 12, 2025. The Government offered Exhibits 
(GXs) 1 and 2, which were received without objection. Applicant testified and asked that 
the record be kept open until July 11, 2025, for the receipt of additional documentation. 
On June 25, 2025, Applicant submitted a closing statement . DOHA received the 
transcript of the hearing (TR ) on June 27, 2025 . Based upon a review of the pleadings, 
exhibits, and testimony, eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Findings of Fact  
In her Answer to the SOR Applicant denied the factual allegations in Paragraph 1 
of the SOR, with explanations She also provided additional information to support h er 
request for eligibility for a security clearance.  
Applicant is 62 years old, married, and has two adult children. She has a master’s 
degree and works as a consultant for defense contractors. (TR at page 5 line 19 to page 
6 line 6, at page 14 lines 13~23, and GX 1 at pages 5, 9~10, 17, and 20~21.) 
Guideline H  –  Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
1.a.  Applicant  denies the allegation  of investing in the c ultivation of marijuana, 
which she insists is legal under her state’s law. However, I find the following:  Applicant is  
aiding (providing s pace in her basement for  her son t o cultivate marijuana)  and abetting 
(providing financial support  for her son’s marijuana cultivation).  Applicant began her  
support  of  her son’s marijuana cultivation in about September 2019,  until at least  the time  
of her hearing, June 12,  2025.  In her closing argument,  Applicant admits to continuing  
this support, which she insists  is of a  “patent-pending agricultural system.”  (TR  at page 
15 line 24 to page 16 line 25, at page 18 line  18 to page 27 line 9,  at page 28 line 12 to  
page 29 line 14,  and at page 34 line 10 to page 37 line 21.)  
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant ’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are useful in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
2 
 
 
   
    
   
 
      
   
 
 
  
    
 
  
  
        
      
    
      
   
     
  
   
   
    
      
     
   
  
    
     
    
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The administrative 
judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. 
According to AG ¶ 2(a), the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of 
variables known as the whole- person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. Likewise, I have avoided drawing inferences grounded on mere 
speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel , and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable clearance decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as 
to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of Executive Order 10865 provides that decisions shall be “in terms of 
the national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
3 
 
  
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
    
      
  
   
   
Analysis  
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Drug Involvement and Substance 
Misuse is set forth at AG ¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual's reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person's ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any "controlled substance" as 
defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in 
this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
The guideline at AG ¶ 25 contains seven conditions that could raise a security 
concern and may be disqualifying. Three conditions are established: 
(a) any substance misuse (see above definition); 
(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation, 
proc
essing, manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession of 
drug paraphernalia; and 
(g) expressed intent to con ti nue drug i nvolvement  and s ubstance misuse, 
or failure to clearly  and convincingly commit to discontinue such misuse. 
Appell
ant has been aiding and abetting her son’s cultivation of marijuana in her 
basement from September 2019 to the present . Therefore, AG ¶ 25 (a), (c) and (g) are 
established. 
The guideline at AG ¶ 26 contains four conditions that could mitigate security 
concerns. Two conditions may be applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or ha ppened 
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur  or does not cast doubt 
on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment; and 
4 
 
     
     
       
     
   
    
 
    
 
   
     
   
  
     
    
(b) the individual acknowledges  his  or her drug involvement and substance 
misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and 
has established a pattern of  abstinence, including, but not limited to: 
(1) disassociation from drug-usi ng associates and contacts; 
(2) changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were 
used
; and 
(3) providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all 
drug i
nvolvement  and  substance misuse, acknowledging that 
any future involvement or misuse is grounds  for revocation of 
national security eligibility. 
Neit
her of these apply. Applicant continues to support her son in the cultivation of 
marijuana, which is violation of Federal law. Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse is 
found against Applicant. In the future, however, if she decides to cease her involvement 
in this Federally illegal conduct, Applicant may again apply for a security clearance, after 
the passage of an appropriate amount of time. However, there is no guarantee that she 
will be found eligible in the future. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of an applicant’s 
conduct and all the circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; ( 5) the  extent to 
which  participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence. 
AG ¶ 2(b) requires each case must be judged on its own merits. Under AG ¶ 2(c), 
the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a security clearance must be 
an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration of the guidelines 
and the whole person concept. Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions 
and doubts as to Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. For all these 
5 
 
   
  
     
  
     
     
    
 
 
 
_________________ 
reasons, I conclude Applicant failed to mitigate the security concerns arising from her 
drug involvement and substance abuse. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by ¶ E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline H:  AG AINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraph 1.a:  Against  Applicant  
Conclusion  
In l
ight of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant national security eligibility 
for a security clearance.  Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Richard A. Cefola 
Administrative Judge 
6 