 
 
 
                                       
                       
 DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
   DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS  
                            
      
           
             
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
     
       
       
    
           
     
    
     
   
 
      
            
       
        
       
       
         
______________ 
______________ 
In  the  matter of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR  Case No.  24-01218  
  )    
 )  
Applicant for Security Clearance  )  
 
Appearances  
For Government: John Lynch, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
02/21/2025 
Decision  
Lokey Anderson, Darlene D., Administrative Judge: 
On October 3, 2023 , Applicant submitted a security clearance application ( e-
QIP). (Government Exhibit 3.) On August 13, 2024 , the Defense Counterintelligence 
and Security Agency Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS) issued Applicant 
a Statement of Reasons (SOR), detailing security concerns under Guideline H, Drug 
Involvement and Substance Misuse. The action was taken under Executive Order (EO) 
10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as 
amended; DoD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance 
Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the Adjudicative 
Guidelines, effective within the DoD after June 8, 2017. 
Applicant responded to the SOR (Answer), on or about September 9, 2024. (Item 
2.) He requested that his case be decided by an administrative judge on the written 
record. Department Counsel submitted the Government’s written case on November 14, 
2024. A complete copy of the File of Relevant Material (FORM), containing s ix items 
was received by Applicant on November 25, 202 4. He was afforded an opportunity to 
file objections and submit material in refutation, extenuation, or mitigation within 30 days 
of receipt of the FORM. Applicant submitted no response to the FORM. DOHA 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
       
           
    
 
 
        
        
    
  
 
         
     
             
        
      
 
        
          
      
         
        
     
 
            
               
          
    
 
      
       
     
         
            
            
        
        
 
          
    
assigned  the  case  to  me  on  February 4, 2025.  Items 1  through  6  will  hereinafter be  
referred to as Government Exhibits 1 through  6.  
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 33 years old . He is not married and has no children . He has a 
Bachelor’s degree , and no prior military service. He is emp loyed by a defense 
contractor as an Engineering Specialist. He is seeking to obtain a security clearance in 
connection with his employment. 
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
The Government alleges that the Applicant has used controlled substances that 
cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner inconsistent with their 
intended purpose, which can raise questions about an individual’s reliability and 
trustworthiness. 
Applicant has a long history of illegal drug use involving a variety of illegal drugs 
including cocaine, psilocybin mushrooms , marijuana, LSD, and MDMA (ecstasy), 
beginning in 2008 and continuing off and on until at least August 2023. The SOR only 
alleges his use of cocaine from 2013 until July 2023, and the use of psilocybin 
mushrooms in August 2023. (Government Exhibits 4 and 5.) 
Applicant began his employment with a defense contractor in January 2021. He 
applied for a security clearance for the first time in 2023. He completed a security 
clearance questionnaire and concerning his use of illegal drugs, Applicant indicated not 
only that he has used cocaine and psilocybin mushrooms, but that he has also used 
marijuana, from 2008 until December 2019; LSD twice in 2018; and MDMA (ecstasy) in 
2013 and 2017. (Government Exhibit 3.) 
In regard to his use of cocaine, Applicant stated that he used it twice in college, 
and five other times with the last two times being in 2023. He stated that he last used 
cocaine in July 2023. He stated that he first used psilocybin mushrooms in college, and 
he used it again in August 2023. (Government Exhibit 3.) 
Applicant also stated that his most recent use of any illegal drugs occurred while 
he was on vacation, holiday, or at a special event. He has often used illegal drugs with 
several of his close friends, friends that he still associates with. (Government Exhibit 6.) 
He stated that he is trying to reduce putting himself in situation s where illegal drugs are 
present and avoiding people who might be affiliated with it. He is remorseful for his past 
illegal drug use, and his intention is to never again use any illegal drugs. He is now in a 
long-term relationship which leads him to spend more nights on the couch than nights in 
the bar or at a party. (Government Exhibit 2.) 
Applicant elected not to respond to the Government’s FORM. Thus, the record is 
void of any documentary evidence in mitigation. 
2 
 
 
 
      
 
      
        
       
         
   
 
          
    
           
     
         
      
      
    
 
      
    
       
         
 
  
         
        
       
  
            
  
 
            
         
     
             
     
        
        
        
  
 
          
               
       
 
 
 
 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The 
administrative judge’s over arching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and 
commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a ), the entire process is a conscientious 
scrutiny of a number o f variables known as the whole -person concept. The 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I 
have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical , and based on the 
evidence contained in the record. 
Directive ¶ E3.1.14, requires the Government to present evidence t hat 
establishes controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the 
“applicant is responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, 
extenuate, or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel, 
and has the ultimate burden of persuasi on as to obtaining a favorable clearance 
decision.” 
A person who applies for access to classified information seeks to enter into a 
fiduciary relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or 
safeguard classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally 
permissible extrapolation as to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of 
classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
        
 
 
         
         
       
       
     
    
        
      
       
  
 
          
 
 
 
 
           
        
  
 
        
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis  
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Drug Involvement and 
Substance Misuse is set forth at AG ¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non -prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual's reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior 
may lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person's ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any "controlled substance" 
as defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term 
adopted in this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
The guideline at AG ¶ 25 contains two conditions that could raise a security 
concern and may be disqualifying: 
(a) any substance  misuse (see above  definition);  and    
(c)  illegal possession  of a  controlled  substance, including  cultivation,  
processing, manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession  of  
drug paraphernalia.   
Applicant has a long history of drug use involving a variety of drugs including 
cocaine use in July 2023, and psilocybin mushrooms as recently as August 2023. The 
above disqualifying conditions apply. 
The guideline at AG ¶ 26 contains conditions that could mitigate security 
concerns. None of the conditions are applicable: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so.  long  ago,  was so  infrequent,  or happened  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur or does  not cast  doubt  
on  the  individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  judgment;  
and  
. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
        
        
          
           
         
         
        
      
           
        
         
       
         
 
     
           
       
      
            
      
 
      
           
           
              
        
           
     
         
        
     
(b) the  individual acknowledges his or  her drug  involvement and  
substance  misuse, provides evidence  of actions taken  to  overcome  this  
problem, and  has established  a  pattern  of abstinence,  including,  but  not  
limited to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts;  
(2) changing  or avoiding  the  environment where drugs were  
used; and   
(3) providing  a  signed  statement of intent to  abstain  from  all  
drug  involvement and substance  misuse,  acknowledging  that  
any future  involvement or misuse  is grounds for revocation  
of national security eligibility.  
Applicant’s history of illegal drug use is extensive, and is indicative of poor 
judgment, unreliability, and untrustworthiness. Although his recent use of cocaine and 
psylocibin mushrooms in July and August 2023 , are the only drugs listed in the SOR, 
MDMA, (ecstasy) go to show the vast extent of his pattern of Illegal drug use. Applicant 
began using marijuana in 2008 , and he continued over the years using a variety of 
illegal drugs until his most recent cocaine use in August 2023. Applicant has used 
illegal drugs off and on for about seventeen years. Illegal drug use is prohibited by DoD 
regulations and is against Federal law. Applicant has for many years ignored the law 
and instead for his convenience, he has engaged in criminal behavior, not once , but 
many times over an extended period of time, and with a number of illegal drugs. In 
addition, Applicant has close friends who use illegal drugs. Those friends he still 
associates with. As Applicant stated in his response to the SOR dated September 9, 
2024, this investigation process just started his self -reflection and his decision -making 
process. He only recently decided to stop using illegal drugs. (Government Exhibit 2.) 
Applicant is a thirty -three-year-old man whose conduct has for many years failed 
to demonstrate maturity, trustworthiness, or good judgment. Given his long history of 
illegal drug use, which occurred over a seventeen -year period, and his recent decision 
to stop using illegal drugs, which was about eighteen months ago, he does not meet the 
requirements for eligibility to access classified information at this time. None of the 
mitigating conditions are applicable. 
Considered in totality, Applicant’s conduct precludes a finding of good judgment, 
reliability, and/or the ability to abide by rules and regulations. To be entrusted with the 
privilege of holding a security clearance, applicants are expected to abide by all laws, 
regulations, and policies, that apply to them at all times. Applicant has disregarded the 
applicable laws for many years. Furthermore, he has failed to submit any documentary 
evidence in mitigation to show otherwise. Under the particular facts of this case, 
Applicant’s conduct has not demonstrated the requisite character or judgment of 
someone who has the maturity, integrity, good judgment , and reliability necessary to 
access classified information. Applicant does not meet the qualifications for access to 
classified information. 
5 
 
 
 
 
          
      
         
    
 
 
       
   
  
 
       
 
          
         
          
        
          
            
          
 
       
     
           
    
 
 
 
      
  
 
    
 
     
 
 
 
Whole-Person  Concept  
Under the whole -person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of  
rehabilitation  and  other permanent  behavioral changes;  (7) the  motivation  
for the  conduct;  (8) the  potential  for pressure, coercion,  exploitation, or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood  of continuation  or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2( c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a security 
clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guideline H in my whole-person analysis. An individual who holds a security clearance 
is expected to comply with the law at all times. Applicant has not demonstrated th e 
level of maturity needed for access to classified information. This is not an individual in 
whom the Government can be confident to know that he will always follow rules and 
regulations and do the right thing, even when no one is looking. Applicant is not 
qualified for access to cl assified information and does not meet the qualifications for a 
security clearance. 
Overall, the record eviden ce leaves me with many questions and doubts as to 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance . For all these reasons, I 
conclude Applicant has failed to mitigate the Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse 
security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by ¶ E3.1.25 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  H:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a  and  1.b.  Against Applicant 
6 
 
 
 
 
             
       
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant national security eligibility 
for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Darlene Lokey Anderson 
Administrative Judge 
7 