 
 
 
                                                              
                             
          
           
             
 
 
    
  
       
     
  
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
     
 
       
         
          
  
       
    
       
       
        
   
 
        
            
        
       
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00008 
) 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Sakeena Farhath, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
01/21/2025 
Decision 
LOKEY ANDERSON, Darlene D., Administrative Judge: 
Statement of Case  
On December 10, 2020, Applicant submitted a security clearance application ( e-
QIP). On April 19, 2024 , the Defense C ounterintelligence and Security Agency 
Consolidated A djudication Services (DCSA CAS) issued Applicant a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR), detailing security concerns under Guideline F, Financial 
Considerations. The action was taken under Executive Order 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DoD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive); and the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for 
Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a 
Sensitive Position (AG), effective within the DoD after June 8, 2017. 
Applicant responded to the SOR (Answer) on September 17, 2024. (Item 2.) He 
requested that his case be decided by an administrative judge on the written record. 
Department Counsel submitted the Government’s written case on September 25, 2024. 
A complete copy of the File of Relevant Material (FORM), containing twelve Items was 
1 
 
 
 
         
    
           
       
           
     
 
 
 
 
          
            
      
 
 
        
     
       
  
 
 
        
             
      
        
           
       
    
   
 
       
        
              
           
 
 
received by Applicant on October 8, 2024 . He was afforded an opportunity to file 
objections and submit material in refutation, extenuation, or mitigation within 30 days of 
receipt of the FORM. Applicant submitted a response to the FORM dated November 9, 
2024, which was admitted into evidence without objection as Applicant’s Exhibit A, with 
attachments. DOHA assigned the case to me on December 10, 2024. Items 1 through 
12 will hereinafter be referred to as Government Exhibits 1 through 12. 
Findings of Fact 
Applicant is 58 years old. He is married with four children. He has a high school 
diploma and some college . He holds the position of Systems Administrator . He is 
seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection with his employment. 
Guideline F - Financial Considerations  
The Government alleged that Applicant is ineligible for a clearance because he 
made financial decisions that indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which raise questions about his 
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information. 
The  SOR alleged  that Applicant has  twenty-five  delinquent debts owed  to  
creditors totaling  approximately $22,831.56,  which  consists  of  delinquent  federal  taxes  
and  consumer debt,  which have  been  placed  for collection.   In  addition, Applicant failed  
to  file his state  tax  return for tax year 2022.  In  his answer, Applicant admits allegations  
1.a.,  1.b.,  1.d.,  1.u.,  1.w.,  and  1.x.  He  denied  the  remaining  allegations.   (See  
Applicant’s Answer to   SOR.)  Credit  reports  of the  Applicant dated  January 15, 2021;  
May 27,  2022; October 4, 2023; January 31,  2024;  and  September 25,  2024,  confirm  
the  indebtedness  listed  in the  SOR.   (Government Exhibits 6, 7, 8, 9  and  10.)   Since  
November 2020, Applicant has been  employed  with  his current employer, a  defense  
contractor.   (Government Exhibit 3.)   
Applicant has a history of financial indebtedness. It is unclear from the record 
why he accumulated so much delinquent debt. Although he stated that he was 
unemployed from August 2018 through November 2019, he was otherwise consistently 
employed full time. He stated that except for his Federal taxes, the remaining credit 
issues listed in the SOR are from a long time ago. He stated that he is aware of his 
consumer legal rights and he is only using the law to his advantage. He considers the 
creditors demands for payment as inappropriate or inaccurate or for services not really 
delivered or simply done poorly. (Government Exhibit 2.) 
He also stated that he has since improved his financial situation . Besides his 
Federal taxes, the only high debt over $1,000 is his Capital One credit card. Th at was 
because in the same month he had to fix his roof , replace his garage door, and replace 
his water heater.  He explained that he does not live lavishly. (Government Exhibit 2.) 
2 
 
 
 
       
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
The following delinquent debts listed in the SOR are of security concern: 
1.a.   A  delinquent debt  owed  to  a  creditor for  an  account  was placed  for  
collection  in the  approximate  amount  of $3,416.   This  was  a  loan  Applicant took  out to  
get caught up  with  his mortgage  payment back in 2005.  He stopped  paying  the  debt  
due  to  what he  called  “emergency expenses.”   He initially  decided  not to  pay the  debt  
because  the  statute  of limitations  has run, and  it  is uncollectible debt.   Applicant  
ultimately settled  the  debt on  October 28, 2024.   The  debt is no  longer  owing.   
(Applicant’s Exhibit A.)             
1.b.   A  delinquent debt  owed  to  a  creditor for  an  account was placed  for  
collection  in the  approximate  amount of $515.   This was for dental work the  Applicant  
received.  Applicant stated  that he  was displeased  with  the  services  and  did not pay the  
debt.  Applicant ultimately settled  the  debt  on  October 28, 2024, for less than  the  
amount owed.  The debt is no longer  owing.   (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)      
1.c.   A  delinquent debt owed to  a creditor  for an  account was placed for collection  
in the  approximate  amount of $375.   Applicant stated  that he is not aware  of  the  debt.   
He stated  that he  plans to  pay it  with  proceeds  from  his  2nd  mortgage.   The  debt  
remains owing.   (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)  
1.d.   A  delinquent debt  owed  to  a  creditor for  an  account was placed  for  
collection  in the  approximate  amount  of $ 258.  This was Applicant’s automobile   
insurance.  Applicant claims that the  insurance  was cancelled,  but he  was charged  for 
coverage.  He stated  that he  plans to  pay it with  proceeds from  his  2nd  mortgage.  The  
debt remains owing.   (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)    
1.e. through  1.t. are debts that are owed  to  the  same  creditor.  Applicant claims  
that they are medical debts  that he does not recognize.   (Government Exhibit 2.)  
1.e.   A  delinquent debt  owed  to  a  creditor for  an  account was placed  for  
collection  in the  approximate  amount of $249.  Applicant denies the  debt  stating  that he  
does not recognize it.  His credit reports  show that it is owing.  (Government Exhibits 9  
and  10.)  The  debt remains owing.    
1.f.   A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  creditor for an  account  was  placed  for collection  
in the  approximate  amount of $220.   Applicant denies the  debt  stating  that he  does not  
recognize it.   His credit reports  show that it is owing.  (Government Exhibits 9  and  10.)   
The debt remains  owing.    
1.g.   A  delinquent debt  owed  to  a  creditor for  an  account was placed  for  
collection  in the  approximate  amount of $220.  Applicant denies the  debt  stating  that he  
does not recognize it.  His credit reports  show that it is owing.  (Government Exhibits 9  
and  10.)  The  debt remains owing.   
1.h.   A  delinquent debt  owed  to  a  creditor for  an  account was placed  for  
collection  in the  approximate  amount of $220.  Applicant denies the  debt  stating  that he  
3 
 
 
 
     
    
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
does not recognize it. His credit reports show that it is owing. (Government Exhibits 9 
and 10.)  The debt remains owing. 
1.i.  A  delinquent debt owed  to  a  creditor for an  account was placed  for collection  
in the  approximate  amount of $189.  Applicant denies the  debt  stating  that he  does not  
recognize it.   His credit reports  show that it is owing.  (Government Exhibits 9  and  10.)   
The debt remains owing.  
1.j.  A  delinquent debt owed  to  a  creditor for an  account was placed  for collection  
in the  approximate  amount of $181.  Applicant denies the  debt  stating  that he  does not  
recognize it.   His credit reports  show that it is owing.  (Government Exhibits 9  and  10.)   
The debt remains owing.   
1.k.   A delinquent debt owed to  a creditor for an account was placed for collection  
in the  approximate  amount of $168.  Applicant denies the  debt  stating  that he  does not  
recognize it.   His credit reports  show that it is owing.  (Government Exhibits 9  and  10.)   
The debt remains owing.   
1.l.  A  delinquent debt owed  to  a  creditor for an  account was placed  for collection  
in the  approximate  amount of $168.  Applicant denies the  debt  stating  that he  does not  
recognize it.   His credit reports  show that it is owing.  (Government Exhibits 9  and  10.)   
The  debt remains owing.   
1.m.  A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  creditor for  an  account was placed  for  
collection  in the  approximate  amount of $145.  Applicant denies the  debt  stating  that he  
does not recognize it.   His credit reports  show that it is owing.  (Government Exhibits 9  
and  10.)  The  debt remains owing.   
1.n.   A  delinquent debt  owed  to  a  creditor for  an  account was placed  for  
collection  in the  approximate  amount of $144.  Applicant denies the  debt  stating  that he  
does not recognize it.   His credit reports  show that it is owing.  (Government Exhibits 9  
and  10.)  The  debt remains owing.   
1.o.   A  delinquent debt  owed  to  a  creditor for  an  account was placed  for  
collection  in the  approximate  amount of $126.  Applicant denies the  debt  stating  that he  
does not recognize  it.   His credit reports  show that it is owing.  The  debt remains owing.  
(Government Exhibits  9 and 10.)   
1.p.   A  delinquent debt  owed  to  a  creditor for  an  account was placed  for  
collection  in the  approximate  amount of $107.  Applicant denies the  debt  stating  that he  
does not recognize it.   His credit reports  show that it is owing.  (Government Exhibits 9  
and  10.)  The  debt remains owing.  
1.q.   A  delinquent debt  owed  to  a  creditor for  an  account was placed  for  
collection  in the  approximate  amount of $87.   Applicant denies the  debt  stating  that he  
does not recognize it.   His credit reports  show that it is owing.  (Government Exhibits 9  
and  10).  The  debt remains owing.   
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.r.  A  delinquent debt owed  to a  creditor for an  account was placed  for collection  
in the  approximate  amount of $76.  Applicant denies the  debt  stating  that he  does not  
recognize it.   His credit reports  show that it is owing.  (Government Exhibits 9  and  10.)   
The debt remains owing.   
1.s.   A delinquent debt owed to  a creditor for an account was placed for collection  
in the  approximate  amount of $70.  Applicant denies the  debt  stating  that he  does not  
recognize it.   His credit reports  show that it is owing.  (Government Exhibits 9  and  10.)   
The debt remains owing.   
1.t.   A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  creditor for an  account  was placed  for collection  
in the  approximate  amount of $61.  Applicant denies the  debt  stating  that he  does not  
recognize  it.   His  credit reports  show that  it  is owing.  (Government Exhibit 9  and  10.)   
The debt remains owing.   
1.u.   A  delinquent debt  owed  to  a  creditor for  an  account was placed  for  
collection  in  the  approximate  amount of $1,422.  This was a  disputed  cell  phone  charge  
on  Applicant’s phone.    Applicant stated  that he  planned  to  pay  the  debt with  the  
proceeds from  his 2nd  mortgage.  Applicant resolved  the  debt on  a  date  unknown.   The  
debt  is no longer owing. ( Applicant’s Exhibit A.)  
 
1.v.   A delinquent debt owed to  a creditor for an account was placed for collection  
in the  approximate  amount  of  $13,980.91.  This is  a  court judgment.   Documentation  
from  an  attorney  representing  the  Applicant  and  from  the  creditor indicates that t he 
Applicant is not a  defendant referenced  in  the  judgment.  The  last 4  of  the  defendant’s  
social security number  and the  date  of birth  do  not match  the  Applicant’s.   Accordingly,  
Applicant is not liable for the  debt.   (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)  
1.w.  A  delinquent debt owed  to  a  creditor for an  account was placed  for  
collection  in the  approximate  amount of $433.65.   Applicant stated  that he  plans to  pay  
the  debt  with  the  proceeds from  his 2nd  mortgage.   The  debt was paid on  October 29,  
2024.  The debt  is no longer owing.   (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)  
1.x.   A  delinquent  debt is owed  to  the  Federal Government for delinquent back  
taxes in  the  amount of  $11,118.05, for tax years 2021  and  2022.  (Government Exhibits  
4  and  5.)  Applicant stated  that he  plans to  pay the  debt in full  with  the  proceeds from  
his 2nd  mortgage.   Applicant’s  Internal Revenue  Service  account summary shows  that  
the  no  debt is owed  to  the  Federal Government for the  tax years in question  or any  
other years for that matter.   The debt  has been resolved.   (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)  
1.y.   Applicant  failed  to  file his state  income  tax  return  for tax year 2022.   
(Government Exhibit 2.)  Applicant’s Franchise Tax Board account  summary dated  
November 6,  2024,  indicates that he  filed  his  income  tax  returns  for tax years 2022  and  
2023,  in  May 2024.  Applicant  stated  that  his deductions were  sufficient.  (Applicant’s 
Exhibit A.)  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
      
        
       
         
   
 
          
    
           
      
      
        
            
 
 
      
    
        
           
        
 
 
       
       
       
     
            
  
 
           
   
  
              
      
       
        
  
 
          
               
       
  
 
 
 
Policies 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The 
administrative judge’s over arching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial , and 
commonsense decision. The entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number o f 
variables known as the whole-person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I 
have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical and based on the 
evidence contained in the record. Likewise, I have avoided drawing inferences 
grounded on mere speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, 
or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel .” The 
applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable clearance 
decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The g overnment 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to 
potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
 
    
      
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
 
 
      
            
      
        
       
             
           
         
           
         
          
              
        
              
Analysis 
Guideline F -  Financial Considerations  
The security concern for Financial Considerations is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to  live  within  one's means, satisfy debts, and  meet financial  
obligations may indicate  poor self-control, lack of judgment,  or  
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise  
questions about an  individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and  ability to  
protect  classified  or  sensitive information.  Financial distress can  also be  
caused  or  exacerbated  by, and  thus can  be  a  possible  indicator of,  other  
issues of  personnel security concern  such  as  excessive gambling, mental  
health  conditions, substance  misuse, or alcohol abuse  or dependence. An  
individual who  is financially overextended  is at greater risk of having  to  
engage  in  illegal  or  otherwise questionable acts  to  generate  funds.  
Affluence  that cannot be  explained  by known  sources of income  is  also a  
security concern insofar as it may result from  criminal activity, including  
espionage.  
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. Four are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a)  inability to satisfy debts;  
(b)  unwillingness to satisfy debts regardless of the ability to do so;   
(c)  a  history of not meeting financial obligations; and  
(f) failure to file or fraudulently filing annual Federal, state, or local income 
tax returns or failure to pay annual Federal, state, or local income tax as 
required. 
It is difficult to determine whether Applicant incurred excessive delinquent debt 
that he could not afford to pay because he lived beyond his means for many years; or 
whether he simply ignored his delinquent debt for many years and focused on other 
priorities. Recently Applicant has addressed some of his delinquent debt. Other debts 
remain owing. He is responsible for all of his delinquent debt, not just some of it. And, 
although he does not have to resolve it all at once, he must show good judgment with a 
willingness to resolve it. In this case, Applicant has decided to ignore many of his debts 
for several years. It is his obligation to pay his debts and clear up his credit report , 
which he has not done , nor is he willing to do. He has known for several years that 
many of his debts were reflected on his credit reports as delinquent and he has ignored 
them. He stated that he has chosen to take advantage of the consumer laws that allow 
him to ignore his obligation to pay his debts. Applicant has intentionally let them remain 
owing either because he does not re cognize them, they are old, or the statute of 
limitations has run and as he stated, they are “uncollectible” by the creditor. In any 
7 
 
 
 
           
        
   
  
        
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
        
 
   
          
         
 
            
              
            
     
     
         
             
            
           
case, his actions or inactions both demonstrate a history of not addressing h is 
responsibility to pay or otherwise resolve his delinquent debt. The evidence is sufficient 
to raise the above disqualifying conditions. 
The following m itigating conditions under the Financial Considerations guideline 
are potentially applicable under AG ¶ 20. 
(a)  the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or occurred  
under such  circumstances that it is unlikely to  recur and  does not cast  
doubt on   the  individual’s current reliability, tr ustworthiness, or good  
judgment;    
(b) the  conditions  that resulted  in the  financial problem  were largely  
beyond  the  person’s  control (e.g. loss   of employment, a   business  
downturn, unexpected  medical emergency,  a  death, divorce  or separation,  
clear victimization  by  predatory  lending  practices, or identity  theft),  and  the  
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
(c)  the  individual has received  or is receiving  financial counseling  for the  
problem  from  a  legitimate  and  credible  source,  such  as  a  non-profit  credit  
counseling  service, and  there are clear indications that the  problem  is  
being resolved or is under control;   
(d) the  individual initiated  and  is adhering  to  a  good-faith  effort to  repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;   
(e) the  individual has  a  reasonable basis to  dispute  the  legitimacy  of the  
past-due  debt which  is the  cause  of the  problem  and  provides  
documented  proof  to  substantiate  the  basis  of  the  dispute  or provides  
evidence of actions to  resolve the issue; and  
(g) the individual has made arrangements with the appropriate tax 
authority to fie or pay the amount owed and is in compliance with those 
arrangements. 
It is noted that Applicant has made some significant headway in regard to 
addressing some his delinquent debts including filing and paying his back taxes . 
However, what is troubling is that he outright refuses to pay other debts, simply because 
he is not aware of the debt s reflected on his credit report . He admits that he ha s a 
number of old debts. He has chosen to ignore them. In regard to th ese debts, namely 
1,e., through 1.t., which consist of sixteen debts owed to the same creditor that total 
approximately $2,431, Applicant claims that the debts are uncollectible by the creditor. 
He has not set up any payment arrangements, nor does he plan to do so. In order to be 
eligible for access to classified information, Applicant must be responsible to pay his 
bills in a timely fashion and must be willing to do so. By using the consumer debt laws 
to impose the statute of limitation allowing him to escape his responsibility of paying his 
debts, he is not demonstrating good judgement or responsibility. In fact, he is showing 
8 
 
 
 
             
       
          
              
 
 
 
          
      
         
    
  
 
      
       
    
     
       
       
     
 
 
 
      
   
 
  :   
 
    
 
    
 
    
 
 
 
 
that he cannot be trusted. Under the circumstances, he has not demonstrated that he is 
sufficiently responsible to access classified information. Mitigating Conditions 20(a), 
20(b), 2(c), 20(d), 20(e), and 2 0(g), do not show full mitigation. There is insufficient 
evidence in the record to show that the Applicant has carried his burden of proof to 
establish mitigation of the government security concerns under Guideline F. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole -person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of  
rehabilitation  and  other permanent  behavioral changes;  (7) the  motivation  
for the  conduct;  (8) the  potential  for pressure, coercion,  exploitation, or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood  of continuation  or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2( c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
relevant facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I conclude App licant has not 
mitigated the Financial Considerations security concern. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by ¶ E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  F AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a.  and 1.b.  For  Applicant  
Subparagraphs 1.c. through 1.t.  Against Applicant  
Subparagraphs 1.u through 1.y.  For Applicant  
9 
 
 
 
      
 
             
       
   
                                                
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue Applicant’s eligibility for 
a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Darlene Lokey Anderson 
Administrative Judge 
10 