 
 
                                                              
                         
          
           
             
 
 
    
  
       
   
   
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
      
 
 
    
      
    
   
   
    
   
 
    
  
   
 
    
   
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTM
ENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-01537 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Brian Farrell, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
12/18/2025 
Decision 
GARCIA, Candace Le’i, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not mitigate the drug involvement and substance misuse security 
concerns. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
On October 28, 2024, t he Department of Defense (D oD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline H (drug 
involvement and substance misuse). The action was taken under Executive Order (EO) 
10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 196 0), as 
amended; DOD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance 
Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative 
guidelines (AG) implemented by the DoD on June 8, 2017. 
Applicant submitted a response to the SOR (Answer) on November 13, 2024, 
and he elected to have the case decided on the written record in lieu of a hearing. The 
Government’s written case was submitted o n December 4, 2024. A complete copy of 
the file of relevant material (FORM) was provided to Applicant, who was afforded an 
opportunity to file objections and submit material to refute, extenuate, or mitigate the 
security concerns. Applicant received the FORM on January 29, 202 5, and he did not 
1 
 
 
   
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
        
    
 
    
  
 
        
    
   
 
 
  
    
     
    
   
   
 
    
    
   
    
  
   
   
  
  
 
    
  
      
  
  
  
 
   
  
   
respond. The case was assigned to me on May 7, 2025. The Government’s documents 
identified as Items 1 through 4 are admitted in evidence without objection. 
This decision was delayed when all administrative judges were furloughed from 
October 1 through November 12, 2025, during a federal government shutdown due to a 
lapse in federal funding. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant admitted the SOR allegations in h is Answer. In addition to his 
admissions in his Answer, he disclosed information regarding his marijuana involvement 
and his intent to use marijuana in the future, on his July 2023 security clearance 
application (SCA), during his March 2024 background interview, and in his October 
2024 response to interrogatories. (Items 1-4)  
Applicant is 27 years old. He previously lived with h is parents but moved out of 
their home in 2024. He earned an associate degree in 20 19 and a bachelor’s degree in 
2021. He worked as a part -time sale associate for a fast -food restaurant chain for three 
months in 2016 and as a technician for an oral surgeon for three months in 2020 but 
was otherwise unemployed while he was attending college. He worked as an 
independent contractor for a records storage facility from June 2022 to July 2022 and 
December 2022 to May 2023 but left to look for better opportunities. He was 
unemployed from May 2023 to April 2024, and he has since worked as a front desk 
representative for his employer . He has had an offer of employment from a defense 
contractor since May 2023, contingent on obtaining a security clearance. He has never 
held a clearance. (Items 3-4) 
Applicant used marijuana, with varying frequency, from about May 2022 to 
October 2024. (SOR ¶ 1.a ) He enrolled in his state cannabis commission in April 2022 
and was prescribed medical marijuana to help manage the aches and pains associated 
with having flat feet and the surgery used to treat it . (Items 3-4) He stated in his SCA 
that marijuana “works effectively to help me manage my pain in a way that doesn’t rely 
on pain killers or other opioids.” (Item 3) He used marijuana once a day to once every 
other day through a THC vape pen to manage his pain and anxiety. (Item 4) He was 
willing to relinquish his enrollment in the commission if he was required to do so for his 
clearance. (Items 3-4) 
Applicant also purchased marijuana, with varying frequency, from about May 
2022 to September 2024. (SOR ¶ 1. b) He purchased from marijuana dispensaries 
marijuana products “for pain relief as per my prescription. I don’t require a lot and 
therefore only visit the dispensary about once a month .” (Items 3-4 ) He stated in his 
response to interrogatories that he spent approximately $50 to $60 monthly on 
marijuana products. (Item 4) 
Applicant became aware that marijuana use remains federally illegally around the 
time of his March 2024 background interview, “while discussing how it might impact the 
progress of my clearance.” (Item 4) During his response to interrogatories, he was 
 2 
 
 
   
 
  
  
    
    
 
 
  
  
    
 
  
 
 
 
    
     
   
    
  
    
      
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
   
provided two memoranda issued by the Director of National Intelligence, titled 
“Adherence to Federal Laws Prohibiting Marijuana Use” and “Security Executive Agent 
Clarifying Guidance Concerning Marijuana for Individuals Eligible to Access Classified 
Information or Eligible to Hold a Sensitive Position,” dated October 25, 2014 , and 
December 21, 2021, respectively. Despite noting that he read both memoranda, he 
expressed an intent to continue to use marijuana in the future. (SOR ¶ 1. c; Item 4 ) He 
stated: 
It works very well for managing my pain and anxiety, but as I said in my 
interview[,] I would be willing to surrender my [state cannabis commission] 
registration and discontinue use if necessary to complete the security 
clearance process. When I [was] asked during the interview[,] I was told 
that it would have no impact on the clearance and would instead be up to 
my employer who [initiated] the process. (Item 4) 
Applicant stated in his response to interrogatories he does not socialize with 
individuals who use illegal substances, and he does not frequent places where he has 
reason to believe illegal substances are being used. He indicated during his background 
interview that his parents are aware of his drug use. He also stated, “During any time 
that I think illegal drugs [may] be present such as at a concert or similar event[,] I only 
accept food and drink from proper vendors and generally avoid contact with groups or 
individuals that are not going to the event with me.” (Item 4) He also stated he was 
required to take a preemployment drug test for his current employer and he tested 
positive for THC, which was explained by his state cannabis commission registration 
and had no bearing on him being hired for his current position. (Item 4) He further stated 
his employer has a random drug testing policy, but he had not yet been subjected to 
such a test. (Item 4) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According 
to AG ¶ 2(c), the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables 
known as the “whole -person concept.” The a dministrative judge must consider all 
available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
 3 
 
 
     
     
 
  
    
   
   
 
  
   
    
    
    
   
 
  
      
    
     
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
  
   
    
  
 
 
  
    
 
   
  
 
 
   
  
   
 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the 
Government must present evidence to establish controverted facts alleged in the SOR. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is responsible for presenting “witnesses and 
other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant 
or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion 
to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation of potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of 
the national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline H, Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse   
AG ¶ 24 expresses the security concern pertaining to drug involvement and 
substance misuse as: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior 
may lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. 
AG ¶ 25 describes conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying. I considered the following relevant: “(a) any substance misuse . . . ;” “(c) 
illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation, processing, 
manufacture, purchase, sale, or distribution; or possession of drug paraphernalia;” and 
“(g) expressed intent to continue drug involvement and substance misuse, or failure to 
clearly and convincingly commit to discontinue such misuse.” 
Applicant used marijuana from May 2022 to October 2024, and he purchased 
marijuana from May 2022 to September 2024. H e also intends to continue to use 
marijuana in the future. AG ¶¶ 25(a), 25(c), and 25(g) are established. 
 4 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
  
      
   
 
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
   
      
      
   
 
AG ¶ 26 
provides the following potentially relevant mitigating conditions: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or happe ned  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur  or does not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability,  trustworthiness,  or good judgment;  
and  
(b) the individual acknowledges  his or  her drug involvement  and  
substance misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this  
problem,  and has  established a pattern of  abstinence, including,  but not  
limited to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-usin g associates and contacts;  
(2) changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were  
used;  and  
(
3) providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all  
drug inv
olvement  and  substance misuse, acknowledging that  
any future involvement or  misuse is  grounds for revocation  
of national security  eligibility.  
Applic
ant self-reported information about his use and purchase of marijuana on 
his SCA, during his background interview, and in his response to interrogatories . He 
acknowledged that his use of marijuana violated federal law despite his enrollment in 
his state cannabis commission and his prescription for medical marijuana, yet he 
expressed his intent to continue to use marijuana in the future to continue to manage 
his pain and anxiety . While he stated he was willing to relinquish his enrollment in his 
state cannabis commission and discontinue his marijuana involvement if necessary to 
complete the security clearance process, he did not provide a statement of intent to 
abstain from all drug involvement and substance misuse. Given the length of time in 
which he has used and purchased marijuana, not enough time has passed since his last 
use in October 2024 to establish a pattern of abstinenc e. None of the mitigating 
conditions are established. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5)  the  extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of  
 5 
 
 
 
 
     
   
   
  
    
     
    
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
      
 
 
        
       
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation  
for the conduct; (8) the potential for  pressure, coercion, exploitation,  or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2( c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance m ust be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. I considered the 
potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and 
circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guideline H in this whole-person analysis. Overall, the record evidence leaves me with 
questions and doubts as to Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. I 
conclude Applicant did not mitigate the drug involvement and substance misuse security 
concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Gui
 deline H:   AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a-1.c:  Against  Applicant  
Conclusion  
In li
ght of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant’s eligibility for a security 
clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Candace Le’i Garcia 
Administrative Judge 
6 