 
 
                                                              
                         
          
           
             
 
 
 
    
  
     
  
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
     
   
   
    
    
    
   
 
   
      
        
     
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 24-02051 
Appearances  
For Government: Cassie L. Ford, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro Se 
11/25/2025 
Decision 
HOGAN, Erin C., Administrative Judge: 
This case involves security concerns raised under Guideline F (Financial 
Considerations). Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on August 1, 2023. On 
November 26, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) sent 
him a Statement of Reasons (SOR) alleging security concerns under Guideline F. The 
DCSA acted under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information 
within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of Defense ( DOD) 
Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program 
(January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) 
implemented by the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
Applicant timely answered the SOR and requested a decision based on the written 
record in lieu of a hearing. On May 16, 2025, the Government sent Applicant a complete 
copy of its written case, a file of relevant material (FORM), including pleadings and 
evidentiary documents identified as Items 1 through 14. He was given an opportunity to 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
   
  
 
 
 
        
  
 
 
    
  
   
    
    
   
 
 
   
     
     
  
   
     
    
    
     
     
 
    
    
    
    
   
   
     
  
    
 
submit a documentary response setting forth objections, rebuttal, extenuation, mitigation, 
or explanation to the Government’s evidence. He received the FORM on June 24, 2025. 
He was given 30 days to submit a Response to the FORM. He did not submit a response. 
The case was forwarded to the DOHA Hearing Office on August 8, 2025, and assigned 
to me on November 18, 2025. 
Evidentiary Matters  
Items 1 - 4 contain the pleadings in the case and are part of the record. Items 5 
through 14 are admitted into evidence.  
Findings of Fact  
Applicant, age 52, is an employee of a DOD contractor who is seeking a security 
clearance. He has been employed by the DOD contractor since September 2012. He 
served on active duty in the United States Air Force from April 1993 to August 2000. He 
separated with an honorable discharge. He has a high school diploma. He is currently 
single and has no children. (Item 5)   
The SOR alleged nine delinquent accounts, an approximate total balance of 
$24,551. The SOR also alleged that Applicant was issued a previous SOR on July 24, 
2014. The July 2014 SOR alleged $19,613 in delinquent consumer debts and delinquent 
tax filings. He also allegedly failed to disclose his delinquent debts on his security 
clearance application. The case was closed on January 22, 2015, because Applicant 
failed to respond. (SOR ¶ 1.j: Items 11, 12, and 13) 
The current SOR debts include a $13, 097 motorcycle loan that was charged off 
(SOR ¶ 1.a); a $3,994 delinquent account that was placed for collection (SOR ¶ 1.b ); a 
$2,607 delinquent  account that was charged off (SOR ¶ 1.c), a $1,833 delinquent account 
that was placed for collection (SOR ¶ 1.d); a $1,557 delinquent medical account that was 
placed for collection (SOR ¶ 1.e); a $477 delinquent account that was charged off (SOR 
¶ 1.f); a $462 delinquent credit card account that was placed for collection (SOR ¶ 1. g); 
a $365 delinquent account that was placed for collection (SOR ¶ 1. h); and a $159 
insurance account that was placed for collection (SOR ¶ 1.i). 
In his response to the SOR, Applicant denied the $365 debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.h. 
He claims it was paid off. He provided a copy of a payment agreement with the creditor 
in his answer to DOHA interrogatories in 2024. In a statement from the creditor, dated 
May 18, 2024, he agreed to make $50 payments over a certain amount of time. The 
payment agreement does not say how long he is required to make the monthly payments. 
It does indicate that he made three previous payments of $89 on April 2, 2024, $50 on 
April 11, 2024, and $50 on May 11, 2024. (Item 6 at 22-23) The debt is no longer listed 
on the most recent credit report, dated May 15, 2025. (Item 10) I find there is sufficient 
evidence to conclude Applicant settled the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.h. This allegation is 
found for Applicant. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
     
   
  
      
 
    
   
     
   
  
   
     
  
    
   
   
     
  
  
     
 
 
 
    
  
   
  
  
     
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
 
Regarding his largest debt, the $13, 097 motorcycle loan (SOR ¶ 1.a) , Applicant 
said that he attempted to return the motorcycle to the dealer when he was diagnosed with 
cancer out of concern that he would not be able to make the payments. He said the 
dealership told him to attempt to sell the motorcycle, but he was unable to sell it. Credit 
reports indicate the motorcycle was repossessed and the loan was foreclosed. (Item 4) 
Applicant also indicated that he was preparing to pay off the debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.f; 
1.g, and 1.i. 
Applicant also admitted that he was denied a security clearance on January 22, 
2015, for failing to respond to an SOR that was issued in July 2014, which alleged a total 
of $19,613 in consumer debts. (SOR ¶ 1.j) He explained in his response to the current 
SOR that he was not aware that he was required to answer the 2014 SOR. He claims the 
instructions were unclear and the investigator conducting his background investigation 
was not very good. (Item 4) 
During a September 2023 interview by an investigator conducting his background 
investigation, Applicant indicated that he incurred a lot of medical bills during his cancer 
treatment. He chose to prioritize paying his medical bills over other bills, because he was 
afraid that he would be denied treatment if he owed any medical bills. He had recently 
completed medical treatment and was taking steps to resolve his debts. He hoped to 
resolve all debts within 12 months. He said he lives within his means and is able to pay 
all of his debts now that his cancer treatment is over. (Item 14 at 3) 
Applicant did not respond to the FORM. At the close of the record, he had provided 
no additional evidence to show that he either paid off, settled or was in a payment plan 
with any of the outstanding delinquent accounts alleged in the SOR. 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” (Department of the Navy v. Egan, 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988) ). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” (Egan at 527). 
The President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant 
applicants eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is 
clearly consistent with the national interest to do so.” (EO 10865 § 2) 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the AG. These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, 
recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge applies these 
guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative 
judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available and reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
     
    
     
 
  
    
  
     
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” (EO 10865 § 
7). Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant has 
not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have established 
for issuing a clearance. Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, 
conditions in the personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the 
applicant from being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the 
burden of establishing controverted f acts alleged in the SOR. (Egan, 484 U.S. at 531 ). 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” (See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth., 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994)). The guidelines 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. (ISCR Case No. 15-01253 at 3 (App. 
Bd. Apr. 20, 2016) ). Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition by 
substantial evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate the facts . ( Directive ¶ E3.1.15) . An applicant has the burden of proving a 
mitigating condition, and the burden of disproving it never shifts to the Government. (ISCR 
Case No. 02-31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005)) 
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent  
with the national interest to grant or continue her  security clearance.”  (ISCR Case No. 01-
20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec.  19,  2002)).  “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.” 
 (Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; AG ¶ 2(b))  
A
nalysis  
Guideline F:  Financial Considerations  
The concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
    
   
  
  
    
 
    
   
 
 
 
  
 
     
      
  
  
    
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to  
engage in illegal  or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds.   
This concern is broader than the possibility that a person might knowingly 
compromise classified information to raise money. It encompasses concerns about a 
person’s self-control, judgment, and other qualities essential to protecting classified 
information. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible, 
unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding classified information. (ISCR 
Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012). 
AG ¶ 19 notes several disqualifying conditions that could raise security concerns. 
The disqualifying conditions that are relevant to Applicant’s case include: 
(a)  inability to satisfy  deb ts;  and  
(c) a history of not  m eeting financial  obligations.  
AG ¶ 
19(a) and AG ¶ 19(c) apply to Applicant’s delinquent debts alleged in SOR 
¶¶ 1.a through 1.i. The total approximate balance of the delinquent debt is $24, 551. The 
largest debt is the $13,097 charged- off motorcycle loan allege d in SOR ¶ 1. a. The 
remaining delinquent debts total approximately $11,454. AG ¶¶ 19(a) and 19(c) also apply 
to Applicant’s prior financial troubles that were alleged in SOR 1.j. While the SOR was 
issued over 11 years ago, it shows that he encountered financial issues even before his 
cancer diagnosis. He had a history of not meeting financial obligations. 
AG ¶ 20 describes conditions that could mitigate security concerns. They include: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
und
er such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast doubt  
on in the individual’s current reliability,  trustworthiness, or good judgment;   
(b ) t he conditions that resulted in the financial  problem were largely beyond  
the per son's  control (e.g.,  loss of  employment, a business downturn,  
unexpected medical  emergency, a death, divorce or separation, clear  
victimization by  predatory  lending practices,  or identity theft),  and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;   
(c) the individual  has  received or is receiving financial counseling for the  
problem  from a legitimate and credible source, such as a non- profit  
counseling service,  and there are clear indications that the problem is being  
resolved or is under control;  
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- f aith effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts; and  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
  
  
    
  
    
  
   
     
  
 
    
    
 
    
 
   
  
     
  
    
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
(e) 
t
he individual has  a reasonable basis to  dispute the legitimacy  of the 
past-due debt  which i s the cause of the problem and provides documented  
proof  to substantiate the basis of  the dispute or provides evidence of  actions  
to  resolve the issue.    
A
G ¶ 20 (b) partially applies because Applicant was diagnosed with cancer in 
approximately 2022. His cancer treatment likely added an additional financial burden, but 
there is insufficient information in the record about his cancer treatment . His cancer 
diagnosis was a circumstance beyond his control. However, this mitigating condition is 
given little weight because there is insufficient information to conclude Applicant acted 
responsibly under the circumstances. He told an investigator in September 2023, that his 
cancer treatment ended and he was now able to start resolving his delinquent accounts. 
He provided no proof that he attempted to resolve any of the delinquent accounts alleged 
in the SOR aside from the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.h. More than two years have passed 
since this interview. 
AG ¶ 20(d) applies with respect to the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.h because there is 
sufficient circumstantial evidence to conclude Applicant resolved this debt. 
None of the remaining mitigating conditions apply. All of the remaining debts 
alleged in the SOR remain unresolved. Applicant provided no documentation about the 
status of any of the delinquent debts alleged in the SOR. He provided no proof that any 
payments were made towards any of the debts, such as receipts from the creditor, copies 
of bank statements or cancelled checks. Overall, Applicant failed to meet his burden of 
proof to mitigate the concerns raised under Financial Considerations. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether the granting or continuing 
of national security eligibility is clearly consistent with the interests of national security 
must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration of the 
adjudicative guidelines, each of which is to be evaluated in the context of the whole 
person. An administrative judge should consider the nine adjudicative process factors 
listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
I have incorporated my comments under Guideline F in my whole-person analysis, 
and I have considered the factors in AG ¶ 2(d). I considered Applicant’s 1 3 years of 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
       
 
   
   
  
 
  
  
 
  
    
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
employment with a DOD contractor as well his seven years of honorable a ctive-duty 
service in the United States Air Force. I considered his cancer diagnosis. I also considered 
that Applicant failed to provide evidence of his efforts to resolve his delinquent accounts 
alleged in the current SOR . After weighing the disqualifying and mitigating conditions 
under Guideline F and evaluating all the evidence in the context of the whole person, I 
conclude that Applicant has not mitigated the security concerns raised under financial 
considerations. 
This decision should not be construed as a determination that Applicant cannot or 
will not attain the state of reform necessary for award of a security clearance in the future. 
With a longer track record of financial responsibility, he may be able to demonstrate 
persuasive evidence of his security clearance worthiness. Overall, the record evidence 
leaves me with questions and doubts as to his eligibility and suitability for a security 
clearance at this time. 
Formal  Findings  
Formal findings on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as required by Section 
E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:    AGAINST  APPL
 ICANT  
Subparagraphs  1 .a –  1.g, 1.i-1.j:  Against  A pplicant  
Subparagraph 1.h:   For Applicant  
Conclusion  
I c
onclude that it is not clearly consistent with the interests of national security to 
grant Applicant eligibility for access to classified information. Clearance is denied. 
Erin C. Hogan 
Administrative Judge 
7 