 
 
 
 
                                                              
 
                          DEPARTMENT  OF DEFENSE  
       DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS    
           
             
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
     
       
 
 
 
       
     
          
     
   
    
      
 
           
         
______________ 
______________ 
In  the  matter of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR  Case No.  24-01413  
 )  
Applicant for Security Clearance  )  
Appearances  
For Government: Daniel P. O’Reilly, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
02/20/2025 
Decision  
COACHER, Robert E., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to mitigate the Government’s security concerns under Guideline 
H, drug involvement and substance misuse . Applicant’s eligibility for a security 
clearance is denied. 
History  of the  Case  
On October 1 6, 2024, t he Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
(DCSA) issued Applicant a Statement of Reasons (SOR) detailing security concerns 
under Guideline H, drug involvement and substance misuse . The DCSA acted under 
Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry 
(February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of Defense ( DOD) 5220.6, Defense 
Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as 
amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines effective June 8, 2017 (AG). 
Applicant answered the SOR on October 25, 2024, and elected to have his case 
decided on the written record in lieu of a hearing. Department Counsel submitted the 
1 
 
 
 
 
   
          
          
      
      
        
          
 
  
 
       
             
        
      
 
        
      
            
          
       
    
 
           
             
      
    
 
           
         
         
        
        
           
           
     
  
 
        
        
     
          
            
     
  
  
Government’s File of Relevant Material (FORM) on November 7 , 2024. The evidence 
included in the FORM is identified as exhibits (GE) 1-4. (GE 1-2 includes pleadings and 
transmittal information .) The FORM was mailed to Applicant, who received it on 
December 3 , 20 24. Applicant was given an opportunity to file objections and submit 
material in refutation, extenuation, or mitigation. He only submitted a copy of his current 
medical marijuana card, which is marked as Applicant exhibit (AE) A . Items 3-4 and AE 
A are admitted into evidence without objection. The case was assigned to me on 
February 7, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s answer , from October 2024 , he admitted two of the SOR 
allegations (¶¶ 1.a and 1.c) and denied one allegation (¶ 1.b)). I adopt his admissions 
as findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of t he pleadings and exhibits 
submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact. (GE 2) 
Applicant is 28 years old. He is not married but he has cohabitated with someone 
since December 2016. He has worked as a material expeditor for his current employer, 
a federal contractor, since February 2022. That contractor is subject to the drug -free 
workplace provisions of 41 U.S.C. 701 et seq. He is a high school graduate with some 
college experience. He was granted an interim security clearance in March or April 
2024. (GE 3-4) 
The SOR alleged, under Guideline H, that Applicant used marijuana, from July 
2023 to at least October 2024. It also alleged he used marijuana from March 2024 to 
October 2024, while holding a sensitive position. Finally, it alleged that Applicant 
intended to continue to use marijuana in the future. (GE 1) 
Applicant admitted his marijuana use from June 2023 to February 2024, in his 
March 2024 security clearance application (SCA) . During his March and April 2024 
personal subject interviews (PSI) with an investigator, he admitted his use of marijuana 
extended through the day before his first interview, on March 27, 2024, and the day 
before his second interview on April 9, 2024 . In his October 6, 2024 SOR answer s to 
interrogatories, he admitted his use of marijuana extended through October 5, 2024. In 
his October 2024 SOR answer, he admitted that he intended to keep using marijuana in 
the future, “as long as it remains legal at any level (i.e. state, federal), and as needed 
medically.” (GE 2-4) 
Applicant explained, during his PSI and answers to interrogatories , that he used 
marijuana daily at home by himself or with his fiancée. He claims he obtained a medical 
marijuana card because of post-traumatic stress disorder, although he did not provide 
evidence of such a diagnosis. He obtains marijuana from state-authorized dispensaries. 
As long as he has a medical marijuana card, he will continue to use marijuana. He has 
not received any type of drug counseling. (GE 4) 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
      
        
       
          
   
 
          
      
         
          
     
       
         
  
 
      
     
        
         
  
 
        
       
       
     
     
 
          
          
     
            
     
        
         
    
 
 
        
            
      
   
 
 
 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider t he adjudicative guidelines . In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, t he adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are use d in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing t he 
complexities of human behavior, t hese guidelines are applied in conjunction with t he 
factors listed in t he adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial , and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 
2(a), the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as 
the “whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, 
reliable information about t he person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in 
making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[ a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I 
have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical , and based on t he 
evidence contained in the record. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in t he SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and ot her evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel , and has t he 
ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with t he Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. T he 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk that an applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rat her than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Section 7 of E O 10865 provides that decisions shall be “in terms of t he national 
interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to t he loyalty of t he applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
  
 
         
         
       
       
     
    
        
      
       
  
 
          
    
 
 
 
 
 
        
     
       
          
           
          
          
         
   
 
 
 
       
 
Analysis  
Guideline H, Drug Involvement  and Substance  Misuse  
AG ¶ 24 expresses the security concern pertaining to drug involvement and 
substance misuse: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non -prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual's reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior 
may lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person's ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any "controlled substance" 
as defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term 
adopted in this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
AG ¶ 25 describes conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying. Three conditions are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) any substance  misuse;   
(f)  any illegal drug  use  while granted  access to  classified  information  or  
holding a sensitive position;  and  
(g) expressed  intent  to  continue  drug  involvement and  substance  misuse,  
or failure to clearly and convincingly commit to discontinue such  misuse.  
Applicant used marijuana daily between July 20 23 and October 2024 . He 
admitted using marijuana after completing his SCA, before and after having his PSI, and 
the day before he submitted his SOR answer. He was granted an interim security 
clearance in March or April 2024 , and he used marijuana subsequent to that time. (One 
may hold a sensitive position when a security clearance is granted on a temporary 
basis. See ISCR Case No. 22 -02623 at 3 (App. Bd. Jan. 24, 2024)) Applicant held a 
sensitive position at the time he used marijuana between March and October 2024. 
Applicant currently uses marijuana and intends to continue using marijuana in the 
future. All the above disqualifying conditions apply. 
Additionally, the  provisions of  50  USC 3343  (The  Bond  Amendment) disqualifies  
Applicant from  holding  a  security clearance  because  he  is currently “an  unlawful user of  
a  controlled  substance.” Marijuana  is  an  unlawful controlled  substance  under federal   
law regardless of any differences there may  be under any state’s law.  
AG ¶ 26 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. Two 
potentially apply in this case: 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
          
          
      
 
 
         
      
       
   
 
 
       
       
             
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or happened  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur or does  not cast  doubt  
on  the  individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  judgment;  
and  
(b) the  individual acknowledges his or  her drug  involvement and  
substance  misuse, provides evidence  of actions taken  to  overcome  this  
problem, and  has established  a  pattern  of abstinence,  including,  but  not  
limited to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts;  
(2) changing  or avoiding  the  environment where drugs were  
used; and  
(3) providing  a  signed  statement of intent to  abstain  from  all  
drug  involvement and substance  misuse,  acknowledging  that  
any future  involvement or misuse  is grounds for revocation  
of national security eligibility.  
Applicant’s use of marijuana is frequent and is ongoing . He continues using 
marijuana on a daily basis. His decision to do so casts doubt upon his current reliability, 
trustworthiness, and good judgment. Neither AG ¶ 26(a) or AG ¶ 26(b) apply. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under t he whole-person concept, t he administrative j udge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all t he circumstances. The administrative judge should consider t he nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) t he  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of t he  conduct; (4) t he  
individual’s age  and  maturity at t he  time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) t he  presence  or absence  of  
rehabilitation  and  other permanent  behavioral changes;  (7) the  motivation  
for t he  conduct;  (8) t he  potential  for pressure, coercion,  exploitation, or  
duress;  and (9) the  likelihood  of continuation  or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), t he ultimate determination of w hether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guideline and the whole-person concept. 
5 
 
 
 
 
       
        
      
 
       
     
          
     
 
 
      
    
 
     
 
      
 
 
             
       
    
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
I considered t he potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
the facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I considered that he continues to 
use marijuana, and he was unequivocal that he intends to keep doing so in the future. 
Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts about 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance . For all t hese reasons, I 
conclude App licant failed to mitigate t he security concerns arising under Guideline H, 
drug involvement and substance misuse. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on t he allegations set forth in t he SOR, 
as required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  H:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs    1.a-1.c:  Against Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of t he circumstances presented by t he record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant’s eligibility for a security 
clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Robert E. Coacher 
Administrative Judge 
6 