 
 
  
 
  
        
         
           
             
 
 
    
  
       
  
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
 
      
     
     
      
 
   
  
    
   
   
 
 
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPAR
TMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-02227 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Mark D. Lawton, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
12/29/2025 
Decision 
Dorsey, Benjamin R., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not mitigate the drug involvement and substance misuse security 
concerns. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
On February 20, 2025, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline H, drug 
involvement and substance misuse. On March 21, 2025, Applicant responded to the SOR 
(Answer) and requested a decision based on the written record in lieu of a hearing. 
The Government’s written case was submitted on May 1, 2025. A complete copy 
of the file of relevant material (FORM) was provided to Applicant, who was given 30 days 
to file objections and submit material to refute, extenuate, or mitigate the security 
concerns. Applicant received the FORM on June 17, 2025, but she did not respond to it. 
The case was assigned to me on November 26, 2025. The Government exhibits included 
in the FORM (Items 1-4) are admitted in evidence without objection. 
 
 
 
       
      
    
    
  
      
  
   
    
 
       
 
 
   
 
  
       
     
  
    
   
 
     
    
   
    
   
 
    
  
  
    
 
 
   
      
     
    
 
 
    
  
  
Findings of  Fact  
Applicant is a 31-year-old employee of a government contractor for whom she has 
worked since December 2018 . She earned a bachelor’s degree in 2016 and a master’s 
degree in 2022. She has been married since June 2023. The DOD granted her security 
clearance eligibility as of June 2023. (Items 2-4) 
In the sole count, the DOD alleged in the SOR that Applicant used marijuana with 
varying frequency between May 2016 and September 2024, including while employed in 
a sensitive position. She admitted this allegation without additional comment in the 
Answer. Her admission is incorporated in my findings of fact. More specifically, the record 
evidence shows that she used marijuana with varying frequency from May 2016 until June 
2016, around the time she graduated from college, and once on September 1, 2024. In a 
security clearance application that she certified in February 2023 (2023 SCA), she 
divulged her 2016 marijuana use and claimed that she had no intention to use it again. 
(Items 1, 2) 
Applicant completed another security clearance application in February 2024 
(2024 SCA). During a September 2024 security interview, which Applicant authenticated, 
she told the DOD investigator that she used marijuana once earlier that month to help 
with pain associated with a stomach ulcer. She obtained the marijuana from her husband, 
who used it with her. She stated that she knew it was wrong to use it and said that she 
had no intention to use it in the future. (Items 3, 4) 
In Applicant’s response to DOHA interrogatories, dated January 27, 2025, she 
divulged that she used marijuana once on September 1, 2024. She wrote that she 
became aware that marijuana use was illegal pursuant to federal law in June 2018 after 
researching it on the internet. She wrote that she does not intend to use marijuana in the 
future, but acknowledged that she associates with her husband, who occasionally uses 
marijuana in their home to help with chronic migraine headaches. She provided a copy of 
her employer’s drug use policy, issued on December 1, 2022, entitled, “Drug and Alcohol 
Free Workplace Program,” which she violated by using marijuana on September 1, 2024. 
She stated that she is subject to random drug testing through her employment but has 
never been tested for illegal drugs and has never failed a drug test. (Item 4) 
Policies  
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines (AG ), which became 
effective on June 8, 2017. 
When evaluating an applicant ’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
2 
 
 
      
   
 
 
   
   
    
  
      
      
 
 
 
   
     
 
      
     
  
    
     
 
    
   
   
  
    
     
    
    
 
   
 
    
  
 
 
 
       
   
  
 
   
  
  
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline H, Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse  
The security concern for drug involvement and substance misuse is set out in AG 
¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
3 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
  
      
  
   
 
   
   
  
   
  
 
   
  
 
    
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
    
  
 
   
   
  
 
   
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any “controlled substance” as 
defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in 
this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
On  October 25, 2014, the Director of National Intelligence (the Security  Executive  
Agent (SecEA))  issued DNI Memorandum ES 2014-00674, “Adherence to Federal  Laws  
Prohibiting M arijuana Use,” which  states:  
[C]hanges to state laws and the laws of the District of Columbia pertaining 
to marijuana use do not alter the existing National Security Adjudicative 
Guidelines . . . . An individual’s disregard of federal law pertaining to the 
use, sale, or manufacture of marijuana remains adjudicatively relevant in 
national security determinations. As always, adjudicative authorities are 
expected to evaluate claimed or developed use of, or involvement with, 
marijuana using the current adjudicative criteria. The adjudicative authority 
must determine if the use of, or involvement with, marijuana raises 
questions about the individual’s judgment, reliability, trustworthiness, and 
willingness to comply with law, rules, and regulations, including federal 
laws, when making eligibility dec isions of persons proposed for, or 
occupying, sensitive national security positions. 
On December 21, 2021, the SecEA promulgated clarifying guidance concerning 
marijuana-related issues in security clearance adjudications (Security Executive Agent 
Clarifying Guidance Concerning Marijuana for Agencies Conducting Adjudications of 
Persons Proposed for Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold 
a Sensitive Position). It states in pertinent part: 
[Federal] agencies are instructed that prior recreational marijuana use by 
an individual may be relevant to adjudications but not determinative. The 
SecEA has provided direction in [the adjudicative guidelines] to agenci es 
that requires them to use a “ whole-person concept .” This requires 
adjudicators to carefully weigh a number of variables in an individual’ s life 
to determine whether that individual’s behavior raises a security concern, if 
at all, and whether that concern has been mitigated such that the individual 
may now receive a favorable adjudicative determination. Relevant 
mitigations include, but are not limited to, frequency of use and whether the 
individual can demonstrate that future use is unlikely to recur, including by 
signing an attestation or other such appropriate mitigation. Additionally, in 
light of the long-standing federal law and policy prohibiting illegal drug use 
while occupying a sensitive position or holding a security clearance, 
agencies are encouraged to advise prospective national security workforce 
employees that they should refrain from any future marijuana use upon 
initiation of the national security vetting process, which commences once 
4 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
     
   
   
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
     
      
   
 
       
    
  
the individual signs the certification contained  in the Standard Form  86 (SF-
86),  Questionnaire for National Security Positions.    
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 25. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) any substance misuse (see above definition);  
(c) illegal pos
session of a controlled substance, including cultivation,  
processing, manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession of  
drug paraphernalia;  and  
(f) any illegal  dr ug use while granted access to classified information or  
holding a sensitive position.  
Applic
ant used (and therefore possessed) marijuana with varying frequency in 
May 2016 and again in September 2024. Her 2024 marijuana use occurred while she was 
employed in a sensitive position. AG ¶¶ 25(a), 25(c), and 25(f) are established. 
AG ¶ 26 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. The following 
are potentially applicable: 
(a) t he behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or happened  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur  or does not cast  doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability,  trustworthiness,  or good judgment;  and  
(b) the individual acknowledges  hi s or her drug involvement and substance  
misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and  
has established a pattern of  abstinence, including, but not limited to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-us ing associates and contacts;  
(2) changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were  
us
ed; and  
(3) providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all  
dr
ug involvement  and  substance misuse, acknowledging that  
any future involvement or misuse is grounds  for revocation of  
national security eligibility.  
Des
pite the somewhat misleading (although technically accurate) language in the 
SOR, Applicant’s marijuana use has been infrequent , with a gap of over eight years 
between her use in college in 2016, and her one-time use in September 2024. However, 
the circumstances surrounding her September 2024 use are problematic for her in her 
efforts to meet her burden of providing evidence in mitigation. Her last use was about a 
year ago and she was aware of marijuana’s illegality under federal law. Prior to her 2024 
use, she claimed that she would not use marijuana again after using it in 2016. She 
5 
 
 
  
  
  
  
      
   
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
    
    
  
 
 
       
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
violated her employer’s drug- free workplace policy . She also still associates with her 
husband, who uses marijuana in their home, and from whom she obtained the marijuana 
she used in September 2024. For these reasons, I find that she has not met her 
evidentiary burden to prove her marijuana use is unlikely to recur or that she has 
established a sufficient period of abstinence. AG ¶¶ 26(a) and 26(b) do not apply. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. I considered the potentially 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances 
surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under Guideline H in my whole-
person analysis. 
Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts about 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. I conclude she did not 
mitigate the drug involvement and substance misuse security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline H:   AGAINST APPLICANT  
Subparagraph 1.a:  Against Applicant  
6 
 
 
 
       
      
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
Conclusion  
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for 
a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Benjamin R. Dorsey 
Administrative Judge 
7 