 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                              
                         
          
           
             
 
 
    
  
       
   
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
    
        
 
 
  
  
  
      
     
  
    
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00833 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Cynthia Ruckno, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
06/16/2025 
Decision 
BENSON, Pamela C., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to mitigate the Guideline H (drug involvement and substance 
misuse) security concerns arising from his past and current use of marijuana. National 
security eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant completed and signed a security clearance application (SCA) on May 
31, 2023. On June 14, 2024, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline H . The action 
was taken under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial 
Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended 
(Directive); and the Nat ional Security Adjudicative Guidelines (AG) effective within the 
DOD on June 8, 2017. 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
   
     
       
  
   
 
  
      
   
   
  
 
 
     
        
     
     
    
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
     
     
  
     
      
    
 
   
 
       
  
 
  
      
  
 
  
    
     
    
On June 17, 2024, Applicant provided a response to the SOR. (Answer) He 
admitted the four SOR allegations (¶ 1.a through 1.d) and requested a hearing before an 
administrative judge. On January 3, 2025, the case was assigned to me, and on March 
13, 2025, the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a notice of hearing, 
setting the hearing for April 24, 2025. 
During the hearing, Department Counsel offered Government Exhibit s (GE) 1 
through 3. Applicant testified, but did not offer any documents. GE 1 through 3 were 
admitted into evidence without objection. I marked the Government’s July 17, 2024 
disclosure letter as Hearing Exhibit (HE) I and appended it to the record. DOHA received 
the hearing transcript (Tr.) on June 5, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 28 years old. He is unmarried and does not have any children. In May 
2022, he earned his associate degree. He submitted an SCA on May 31, 2023, and he 
was almost immediately offered employment with a DOD contractor. His job title is detail 
planner. He does not currently work in an area that requires a security clearance, but in 
the future, there may come a time his employer can use him in a restricted area. This is 
Applicant’s first application for a DOD security clearance. (GE 1; Tr. 14-15) 
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse   
While Applicant was enrolled in high school, he noticed his back was constantly 
hurting. He met with a medical doctor who informed Applicant that he had early onset 
degenerative spinal disease. He currently exercises and stretches regularly to help with 
his back pain. Beginning in about January 2020, he started to use marijuana regularly to 
help manage the pain while he sleeps, and on some occasions, he uses marijuana for his 
anxiety. He decided to use marijuana after receiving a recommendation from his cousin, 
a medical marijuana card holder, who informed Applicant that marijuana would help him 
manage his back pain. The SOR alleged Applicant used and purchased marijuana, with 
varying frequency, from about January 2020 to “present.” (SOR ¶ 1.a) (GE 1; Tr. 15-20) 
In approximately May 2023, when Applicant was in the hiring process with the DOD 
contractor, he was informed that he would need to obtain a medical marijuana card due 
to his positive drug test for marijuana. (SOR ¶ 1.b) Marijuana use for medicinal purposes 
was legalized in his state of residence in about 2012, and recreational use of marijuana 
became legal in July 2021. Applicant went online and was able to obtain a medical 
marijuana card, which he needed before he could start his job training. He testified at the 
hearing that he renews his medical marijuana card every year and his current card was 
good through May 2025. (Tr. 19-23) 
Applicant testified during the hearing that he was aware marijuana was illegal 
under federal law well before he started his security clearance investigation. He denied 
using marijuana on a social basis , and stat ed he purchased marijuana only from a 
dispensary. Information he provided in a January 2024 interrogatory, however, seems to 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
   
     
  
 
   
       
     
  
  
     
  
 
            
 
    
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
    
      
 
 
  
 
contradict his testimony. In the interrogatory he listed, “I used [marijuana] on social 
occasions. Small amount, probably a hit or two and I obtained it socially, friends, friends 
of friends…etc.” During the hearing Applicant reiterated that he purchased his marijuana 
from the dispensary. Department Counsel asked if he used marijuana at night before 
going to bed, and he replied, “Yes, every single night, yes.” He also admitted that when 
he goes out with friends, he takes marijuana with him, not for his friends, but for his own 
use if needed. (Tr. 26-28; GE 2) 
Applicant was very candid that he would most likely use marijuana in the future as 
long as he continues to feel back pain. (SOR ¶ 1.d) In his January 2024 interrogatory he 
listed, “I plan on using medical marijuana in the future. Depending on my pain level, before 
bed (if needed) I will use about .3g - .5g in order to relieve my pain.” On the same page 
the interrogatory also asked, “Do you understand that marijuana use remains illegal under 
Federal law and that any future use of marijuana may affect your security clearance?” 
Applicant responded “Yes.” (GE 2; Tr. 29-39) 
Applicant testified that after  his  July 2023 background interview, the DOD  
authorized investigator told  him that his  medical  marijuana use was fine and should not  
prevent  him from obtaining a security clearance. Applicant was immediately provided  
clarification that a DOD investigator should never say  something like that to an applicant  
because 1)  they  have no authority  to  do so in their  position  of  an investigator;  and  2)  the  
information was completely wrong.  Applicant had mentioned during his  background  
interview that  he may start using a holistic approach for treating his back pain without the  
use of  marijuana,  but  at the hearing, he admitted he continued to use marijuana after  
completion of the May  2023 SCA  to  manage  his back pain.  (SOR  ¶ 1.c)  (GE  3; Tr. 36-
39)  
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for access to classified 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
   
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
   
 
  
  
 
   
    
    
   
 
 
 
   
 
    
  
  
  
  
 
    
 
 
 
 
information will be resolved in favor of national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. Likewise, I have not drawn inferences grounded on m ere 
speculation or conjecture. 
Directive ¶ E3.1.14 requires the Government to present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified infor mation. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of Executive Order 10865 provides that decisions shall be “in terms of 
the national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline H: Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse   
AG ¶ 24 expresses the security concern for drug involvement: 
The illegal use of controlled substances . . . can raise questions about an 
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. 
I have considered the disqualifying conditions for drug involvement under AG ¶ 25 
and the following are potentially applicable: 
(a) any substance misuse;   
(b) testing positive for  an il
 legal  drug;  and  
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
   
     
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
      
     
  
    
     
    
  
     
    
   
  
 
(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation,  
proces
sing, manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession of  
drug paraphernalia.   
Applic
ant used and purchased marijuana, with varying frequency, from about 
January 2020 to “present” (the language alleged in the June 2024 SOR) . He tested 
positive for marijuana during a May 2023 drug pre -employment test given by a DOD 
contractor. The above disqualifying conditions apply. 
I have considered the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 26. The following are 
potentially applicable: 
AG ¶ 26(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or  
happened 
under such circumstances that it is  unlikely to recur or does not  
cast doubt  on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  
judgment; and  
AG ¶ 26(b)  the individual acknowledges his  or her dr ug involvement and  
substance misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this  
problem, and has established a p  attern of abstinence,  including, but  not  
limited to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-usin g associates and contacts;  
(2) changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were  
used; an
d  
(3) providing a signed a statement of intent to abstain from all  
drug inv
olvement  or substance misuse, acknowledging that  
any future involvement or misuse is grounds  for revocation of  
national security eligibly.  
None of the m
itigating conditions apply. Applicant used marijuana for medicinal 
purposes, from about January 2020 to May 2023, when he filled out a n SCA. The SCA 
should have put him on notice that the Federal Government was concerned about his use 
of marijuana, especially since he was already aware it was prohibited by Federal law . It 
is important to note that when he responde d in January 2024 to an interrogatory, it was 
clearly obvious that marijuana remained a concern when he was specifically asked, “Do 
you understand that marijuana use remains illegal under Federal law and that any 
future use of marijuana may affect you r security clearance eligibility? ” Even if 
Applicant may have been provided incorrect information previously, when he read this 
question, the consequences for his continued marijuana use were made crystal clear. 
Applicant was placed on full notice with this question, and he answered it with an 
affirmative response. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
      
    
   
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
    
   
 
      
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
    
   
 
  
 
      
  
    
    
    
 
Applicant continued to use marijuana during his security clearance investigation, 
on a nightly basis, and even after he received the SOR in June 2024. He continued to 
use marijuana up until his security clearance hearing in April 2025 . Marijuana is illegal 
under Federal law, and there are no exceptions for the medical use of marijuana. As such, 
Applicant failed to mitigate the drug involvement and controlled substance misuse 
security concerns. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to  include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other  permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration of 
the guidelines and the whole- person concept. I considered the potentially disqualifying 
and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances surrounding this case. 
I have incorporated my comments under Guideline H and the AG ¶ 2(d) factors in this 
whole-person analysis. 
The Federal government must be able to repose a high degree of trust and 
confidence in persons granted access to classified information. In deciding whether to 
grant or continue access to classified information, the Federal government can take into 
account facts and circumstances of an applicant's personal life that shed light on the 
person's judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness. Furthermore, security clearance 
decisions are not limited to consideration of an applicant's conduct during work or duty 
hours. Even if an applicant has a good work record, his or her off-duty conduct or 
circumstances can have security significance and may be considered in evaluating the 
applicant's national security eligibility. 
Applicant failed to make positive changes in his life by using other means to treat 
his back condition. He was aware marijuana was illegal under Federal law and continued 
use of marijuana could create adverse consequences for his security clearance eligibility. 
His behavior creates concern that he is unable to follow laws, rules, and regulations. He 
has not made a commitment to remain drug-free. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
     
      
   
 
   
  
  
   
  
 
      
    
 
     
 
   
 
 
   
       
       
 
 
 
 
 
This decision should not be construed as a determination that Applicant cannot or 
will not attain the state of reform necessary for award of a security clearance in the future. 
With more effort towards establishing a track record of responsibility and a be tter history 
of behavior consistent with his obligations under Federal law , he may well be able to 
demonstrate persuasive evidence of his security clearance worthiness. 
I have carefully applied the law, as set forth in Egan, Exec. Or. 10865, the Directive, 
the AGs, and the Appeal Board’s jurisprudence to the facts and circumstances in the 
context of the whole person. Applicant failed to mitigate the drug involvement and 
substance misuse security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline H:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 1.a, 1.b, 1.c  and 1.d:    Against Applicant  
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, I conclude 
that it is not clearly consistent with the interests of national security to continue Applicant’s 
eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Pamela C. Benson 
Administrative Judge 
7 