 
 
 
 
 
               
 
                   
          
           
             
 
 
 
    
  
      
   
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
______________ 
_________
_____ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
"'L 09i~ .t!J~ 0 
"' ;:. "tr 
00 
"" 
In the m
atter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-01270 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: George Hawkins, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Samir Nakhleh, Esq. 
09/26/2025 
Decision 
FOREMAN, LeRoy F., Administrative Judge: 
This case involves security concerns raised under Guideline s G ( Alcohol 
Consumption) and J (Criminal Conduct). Clearance is granted. 
Statement  of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA)  on May 11, 2022. On 
September  27, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) sent  
him a Statement of Reasons (SOR) alleging security concerns  under Guidelines  G and  
J.  The DCSA acted  under  Executive Order ( Exec.  Or.)  10865,  Safeguarding Classified  
Information within Industry  (February 20, 19 60), as amended ; Department of Defense  
(DOD)  Directive 5220.6,  Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review  
Program  (January 2, 1992),  as amended (Directive);  and the adjudicative guidelines (AG)  
promulgated in Security Executive Agent Directive 4,  National Security Adjudicative  
Guidelines  (December 10, 2016),  which became effective on June 8,  2017.  
1 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
    
  
 
   
   
     
    
    
    
   
    
   
    
 
 
    
   
  
 
   
    
   
    
 
  
 
  
   
  
   
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
   
    
   
   
  
Applicant answered the SOR on November 22, 2024, and requested a hearing 
before an administrative judge. Department Counsel was ready to proceed on February 
4, 2025. The case was assigned to me on June 26, 2025 . On July 2, 2025, the Defense 
Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) notified Applicant that the hearing was scheduled 
to be conducted by video teleconference on August 18, 2025. 
I convened the hearing as scheduled. Government Exhibits (GX) 1 through 13 
were admitted in evidence without objection. Department Counsel requested that I take 
administrative notice of the facts set out in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental 
Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM -5), the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental 
Disorders, Fifth Edition, Text Revision ( DSM-5-TR), and a fact sheet from the National 
Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism on alcohol use disorder (AUD). The excerpts 
from those publications are attached to the record as GX 14, 15, and 16 . I took 
administrative notice as requested. Applicant testified and submitted Applicant’s Exhibits 
(AX) A through Q, which were admitted without objection. The record closed upon 
adjournment of the hearing. DOHA received the transcript on August 29, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, 
and 1.d through 1.h. He admitted SOR ¶ 1.i “with clarification.” He denied SOR ¶ ¶ 1.c 
and 1.j. His admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact. 
Applicant is a 41- year-old business process consultant employed by a defense 
contractor since March 2020. He was previously employed by defense contractors from 
February 2013 until he began his current employment. He married in October 2014 and 
has three children, ages nine, eight, and six. 
Applicant graduated from high school in 2002 and began attending college in the 
fall of that year. He interrupted his college education when he enlisted in the Army 
National Guard (ARNG) and completed his basic training. He was deployed to 
Afghanistan from September 2004 to August 2005 and was awarded the Combat Infantry 
Badge and several other awards and campaign medals. (AX K) He continued to serve in 
the Army National Guard until August 2016, and he received honorable discharges for 
each period of service. (AX G) He resumed his college education in 2008 and received a 
bachelor’s degree in January 2011 and a master’s degree in December 2017. He 
received a conditional clearance in June 2010. 
The evidence submitted in support of the allegations in the SOR is summarized 
below. 
SOR ¶ 1.a: underage possession of alcohol in August 2001 . Applicant 
disclosed this incident in his SCA and during the psychological evaluation requested by 
DCSA. He and a group of friends decided to drive to a beach in the middle of the night to 
socialize and go surfing in the morning. A police officer searched Applicant’s vehicle and 
found a six-pack of beer. Applicant was charged with underage possession because he 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
    
 
   
  
 
  
  
 
     
   
   
   
  
   
 
      
   
    
   
 
  
  
      
 
    
   
      
  
  
   
 
     
 
 
    
 
  
    
  
 
     
  
was the owner of the vehicle. There is no evidence of a court disposition or any 
punishment in the record. 
SOR ¶ 1.b: underage possession of alcohol in February 2003. Applicant 
disclosed this incident in his SCA. He was in his dormitory room drinking alcoholic 
beverages with friends. Their conversations were loud enough for a resident university 
official to knock on their door. The university official observed them and charged everyone 
in the room with underage possession of alcohol. (Tr. 27) In June 2003, a nolle prosequi 
was entered for this offense. (AX E) 
SOR ¶ 1.c: underage possession of alcohol in J une 2003. This is the same 
incident alleged in SOR ¶ 1.b. 
SOR ¶ 1.d: driving after illegally consuming alcohol in December 2003. 
Applicant disclosed this incident in his SCA. A university campus police officer saw him 
drive across the center lane line after making a right turn. A blood alcohol content (BAC) 
test was below the legal limit, but because Applicant was underage, he was charged with 
driving after illegally consuming alcohol. He was convicted, fined $500, and his driver’s 
license was suspended for six months. 
SOR ¶ 1.e: driving under the influence (DUI) in December 2008. Applicant was 
arrested and charged with DUI with a BAC greater than .20 after he decided to drive home 
after drinking with friends at a bar. (GX 8 at 11) He testified that he and his friends were 
drinking pitchers of beer and playing darts. (Tr. 30) He was convicted and fined $300. His 
driver’s license was suspended for one year, he was placed on probation for one year, 
and he was required to attend an alcohol safety action program (ASAP). His university 
placed him on disciplinary hold, which was satisfied and released in August 2009, and he 
was allowed to complete his education at the university. (GX 11) 
SOR ¶ 1.f: drunk in public in May 2009. Applicant was walking to a friend’s house 
after drinking with friends at a bar. A police officer observed him crossing the street at a 
point where there was no marked crosswalk. The police officer stopped him, apparently 
thinking that he was walking in the street, and administered a field sobriety test. He was 
charged with drunk in public. Because he was still on probation for the DUI in December 
2008, he sought treatment and enrolled in the Wounded Warrior program. He completed 
the program, which consisted of three months of educational courses, group therapy 
sessions, and attendance at Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) meetings. The charge was then 
dismissed. 
SOR ¶ 1.g: drunk in public in June 2010 . After a long weekend involving an 
overnight drive and an all-day party, Applicant and a friend ordered some food and called 
a taxi. While waiting for the taxi, they both fell asleep on the sidewalk. Police officers 
awakened them and charged them with being drunk in public. The charge against 
Applicant was dismissed. 
SOR ¶ 1.h: DUI in December 2019. Applicant was charged with DUI after being 
stopped by a police officer who observed the vehicle weaving in its lane and braking 
3 
 
 
 
 
    
       
  
    
 
      
    
    
   
 
  
   
    
   
  
  
     
      
   
    
      
       
  
 
   
 
  
 
   
  
  
     
      
     
     
 
     
    
     
      
  
    
 
 
 
   
  
several times for no apparent reason. A breathalyzer test registered a blood- alcohol 
content (BAC) of 0.17. He plead guilty to a misdemeanor with a BAC of 0.14. He was 
sentenced to 60 days in jail, suspended for 60 days , unsupervised probation for 12 
months, and a $600 fine, with $300 suspended. His driver’s license was restricted for 12 
months. He was required to install an interlock device, attend a victim impact panel, and 
complete an ASAP. (GX 1 at 39; GX 8 at 9; GX 10; GX 13) Applicant testified that on this 
occasion, he had consumed six beers while watching the first half of a football game, and 
then drove to a friend’s house to watch the second half, during which he consumed one 
more beer and two glasses of scotch whiskey. (Tr. 36-37) 
SOR ¶ 1.i: psychological evaluation in January 202 4, evaluation of alcohol 
use disorder, moderate, in sustained remission, but evaluator declined a favorable 
recommendation because of continued use of alcohol. In January 2024, Applicant 
was evaluated by a licensed psychologist at the request of DCSA. He was diagnosed with 
alcohol use disorder, moderate, in sustained remission. The psychologist noted that 
Applicant’s insight was good, because he was able to reflect on his past and take 
accountability for his conduct. His impulse control was also intact. The psychologist’s 
evaluation is unclear. His “impression” was that Applicant’s self-report “does not indicate 
that he is experiencing any current issues or symptoms which would meet criteria for a 
use disorder.” His diagnosis was “alcohol use disorder, moderate, in sustained 
remission.” His prognosis states that Applicant “does not currently appear to meet criteria 
for an AUD.” However, he expressed concern about Applicant’s continued use of alcohol, 
which is a “constant risk factor” that could lead to future alcohol -related incidents. He 
concluded that, because of Applicant’s continued use of alcohol, he could not give 
Applicant a favorable recommendation as of the time of the evaluation. (GX 7) 
SOR ¶ 1. j: conditional clearance granted, with a warning that “subsequent 
unfavorable information may result in the suspension of your security clearance.” 
Applicant received a conditional security clearance in June 2010. Because of his record 
of alcohol-related incidents and alcohol abuse, he was warned that “subsequent 
unfavorable information may result in the suspension of your security clearance.” (GX 6) 
This allegation is established by the evidence. However, it fails to allege disqualifying 
conduct. A conditional clearance or a warning about future conduct are relevant facts in 
evaluating potentially disqualifying conduct , but they are not independent allegations of 
an applicant’s disqualifying conduct. Thus, I have resolved SOR ¶ 1.j for Applicant 
Acting on the advice of his lawyer, Applicant began treatment from a licensed 
clinical social worker (LCSW) in January 2020. The LCSW evaluated him in June 2020, 
after he completed 16 sessions of individual counseling and 16 sessions of group 
counseling, and she rated his attitude, involvement, and insight into alcohol use as 
excellent. She commented that he “made excellent progress in counseling and is solid in 
sobriety.” (AX D) Applicant has not received any alcohol counseling since June 2020. (Tr 
54) 
When Applicant was interviewed by a security investigator in October 2020, he 
reported that he began drinking beer in high school, consuming beer once or twice a 
month. In college, he consumed alcohol every weekend. In 2004 and 2005, while serving 
4 
 
 
 
 
   
         
   
    
   
 
       
     
   
 
  
 
 
 
   
     
   
   
     
 
 
  
     
  
   
  
 
   
  
   
      
    
     
      
    
 
     
  
 
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
on active duty in the National Guard, he did not consume alcohol . In 2010, he was 
consuming more than one or two beers on one or two weekends a month. He did not 
consume alcohol while he was assigned overseas in 2011 and 2012. From 2012 to 
December 2019, he consumed alcohol on e or two weekends per month. He told the 
investigator that he had been sober since December 2019. (GX 9 at 38-39) 
At the hearing, Applicant testified that he abstained from alcohol after his arrest for 
DUI in December 2019. (Tr. 75) He continued his abstinence until April 2022. At that time, 
he and his family were on vacation and celeb rating his birthday. He and his wife shared 
a bottle of wine. (Tr. 41) After this event, he began limited use of alcohol at social events, 
consuming one or two drinks one or two times a month. (Tr. 41-42) 
When Applicant responded to DOHA interrogatories in August 2024, he reported 
that he was drinking one to three beers one or two times a month until August 10, 2024. 
He also reported that he was consuming one or two drinks of hard liquor “less than 
monthly,” and that his last consumption of hard liquor was February 24, 2024. (Tr. 59; GX 
9 at 7) In the same interrogatories, he reported that he attended Alcoholics Anonymous 
(AA) meetings as required by the Wounded Warrier Program from September 2010 to 
January 2011, but that he did not currently plan to participate in AA. (GX 9 at 11) 
I have taken administrative notice that the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and 
Alcoholism (NIAAA) defines “heavy alcohol use” as consuming more than four drinks on 
any day for men or more than three drinks for women. The NIAAA defines “binge drinking” 
as a pattern of drinking alcohol that brings the BAC to 0.08 percent, which, for a typical 
adult, corresponds to consuming five or more drinks (male) or four or more drinks (female) 
in about two hours. (GX 16) 
I have also taken administrative notice of the DSM-TR discussion of alcohol use 
disorder, which defines the diagnostic criteria for alcohol abuse disorder as follows: “A 
problematic pattern of alcohol use leading to clinically significant impairment or distress, 
as manifested by at least two of [11 listed symptoms] occurring within a 12-month period.” 
The psychologist diagnosed Applicant with alcohol use disorder, moderate, in sustained 
remission. “Moderate” is defined as the presence of four or five symptoms. “Sustained 
remission” is defined as “none of the criteria for alcohol use disorder have been met at 
any time during a period of 12 months or longer.” (DSM-TR at 553-55) 
I have also taken administrative notice of the following DSM-TR discussion of the 
development and course of alcohol use disorder: 
Alcohol use disorder has a variable course that is characterized by periods 
of remission and relapse. A decision to stop drinking, often in response to 
a crisis, is likely to be followed by a period of weeks or more of abstinence, 
which is often followed by limited periods of controlled or nonproblem atic 
drinking. However, once alcohol intake resumes, it is highly likely that 
consumption will rapidly escalate and that severe problems will once 
against develop. 
5 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
    
   
  
    
   
     
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
    
 
 
      
  
  
     
    
  
      
 
 
   
   
    
   
      
    
 
     
  
  
   
Alcohol use disorder is often erroneously perceived as an intractable 
condition, perhaps based on the fact that individuals who present for 
treatment typically have a history of many years of severe alcohol -related 
problems. However, these most severe cases represent  only a small 
proportion of individuals with this disorder, and the typical individual with the 
disorder has a much more promising prognosis. 
(DSM-TR at 557-58) 
In November 2024, Applicant executed a statement of intent, declaring that he will 
never abuse alcohol while holding a security clearance, that he will not consume alcohol 
in the future, and acknowledging that any future involvement in drinking alcohol will be 
grounds for revocation of his national security eligibility. (AX A) At the hearing, he 
submitted the results of a phosphatidyl ethanol ( PeTH) alcohol screen for a sample 
collected on July 31, 2025, which was negative, indicating the absence of alcohol 
consumption for the two to four preceding weeks. (AX P) 
A member of the committee that hired Applicant for his current position submitted 
a letter attesting to his academic knowledge, open mindedness, and personal character. 
(AX M) A colleague who retired after 38 years of civilian service and is now employed by 
a defense contractor also submitted a letter attesting to his integrity, honesty, 
trustworthiness, and acceptance of responsibility for his previous conduct. (AX N) 
Applicant’s performance appraisal for the calendar year 2024 rated him as 4.45 on a five-
point scale. A rating of 4 is “very good” and 5 is “exceptional.” (AX Q) 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
decision. An a dministrative judge must consider all available and reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
6 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
   
    
   
  
 
   
   
 
    
   
  
   
 
   
   
  
 
   
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865 
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant 
has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have 
established for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan at 531. Substantial 
evidence is “such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to 
support a conclusion in light of all the contrary evidence in the same record.” See I SCR 
Case No. 17- 04166 at 3 (App. Bd. Mar. 21, 2019) . It is “less than the weight of the 
evidence, and the possibility of drawing two inconsistent conclusions from the evidence 
does not prevent [a Judge’s] finding from being supported by substantial evidence.” 
Consolo v. Federal Maritime Comm’n, 383 U.S. 607, 620 (1966). “Substantial evidence” 
is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. Washington Metro. Area 
Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines presume a nexus or 
rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria listed therein and 
an applicant’s security suitability. ISCR Case No. 15-01253 at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 20, 2016).  
Once the  G overnment establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial  
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive  ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of  proving a mitigating condition,  
and the burden of disproving it  never shifts to the  Government.  See  ISCR Case No.  02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep.  22,  2005).   
An  applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent  
with the national interest to grant or continue  his security clearance.”  ISCR Case No.  01-
20700 at  3 (App. Bd.  Dec. 19, 2002).  “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  Egan  at 531.   
Analysis  
Guideline  G,  Alcohol Consumption  
The concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 21: “Excessive alcohol 
consumption often leads to the exercise of questionable judgment or the failure to control 
impulses, and can raise questions about an individual’s reliability and trustworthiness.” 
The following disqualifying conditions under this guideline are potentially relevant: 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
   
 
 
       
     
 
 
   
 
 
AG ¶  22(a): alcohol-related incidents away from work,  
 such as driving while  
under the influence, fighting, child or spouse abuse,  disturbing the peace,  
or other incidents of concern, regardless of the frequency of the individual’s  
alcohol use or whether the individual has  been diagnosed with alcohol use 
disorder;  
AG ¶ 22(c): habitual or  binge c onsumption of  alcohol to the point of impaired  
judgment, regardless  of whether the individual is diagnosed with alcohol  
use disorder;  
AG ¶ 22(d): diagnosis by a duly qualified medical or  men tal  health 
professional (e.g.,  physician, clinical psychologist, psychiatrist,  or licensed 
clinical social worker) of alcohol use disorder;  
AG ¶  22(e): t he failure to follow  tr eatment advice once diagnosed;   
AG ¶  22(f): alcohol consumption, which is not  in ac cordance with treatment  
recommendations, after a diagnosis  of alcohol use disorder;  and  
AG ¶ 22(g):  failure to  f ollow any court order  regarding alcohol education,  
evaluation, treatment, or  abstinence.  
AG ¶
 22(a) is established by Applicant’s two DUI convictions and two occasions of 
being charged with being drunk in public. 
AG ¶ 2 2(c) is establi shed. Applicant’s alcohol consumption in December 200 8 
(SOR ¶ 1.e), June 2010 (SOR ¶ 1.g),  and December 2019 (SOR  ¶ 1.h)  qualifies as  binge  
drinking  for each occasion.  
AG ¶ 22(d) is established. The psychologist who diagnosed Applicant in response 
to a DCSA request diagnosed him with an alcohol abuse disorder. 
AG  ¶¶ 22(e), 22(e),  22(f), and 22(g)  are not  established.  There is no evidence that  
any medical  professional  gave Applicant any  advice or  treatment recommendations.  
Applicant was court-ordered to complete  ASAP, and he complied with that order.   
The following mitigating conditions are potentially applicable: 
AG ¶ 23(a): so  much time has passed, or the behavior was so infrequent, or  
i
t happened under such unusual circumstances that it is  unlikely  to  recur or  
does not cast  doubt on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or  
judgment;   
AG  ¶ 23(b): the i ndividual acknowledges  hi s  or  her pattern of maladaptive 
alcohol use, provides  evidence of actions taken to overcome this  problem,  
and has demonstrated a clear and established pattern of  modified  
consumption or abstinence in accordance with treatment recommendations;  
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
       
 
   
  
  
     
     
    
    
    
 
     
  
  
    
  
 
    
    
    
        
      
    
      
    
       
  
   
    
      
AG ¶ 23(c):  the individual is participating in counseling or a treatment  
progr
am, has  no previous history of treatment and relapse, and is making  
satisfactory progress in a treatment program; and  
AG ¶ 23(d): the individual has successfully completed a treatment program  
along
 with any required aftercare and has demonstrated a clear and  
established pattern of  modified consumption or abstinence in accordance  
with treatment recommendations.  
The fi
rst prong of AG ¶ 23(a) (“so much time has passed”) focuses on whether the 
conduct was recent. There are no bright line rules for determining when conduct is recent. 
The determination must be based on a careful evaluation of the totality of the evidence. 
If the evidence shows a significant period of time has passed without any evidence of 
misconduct, then an administrative judge must determine whether that period of time 
demonstrates changed circumstances or conduct sufficient to warrant a finding of reform 
or rehabilitation. ISCR Case No. 02-24452 at 6 (App. Bd. Aug. 4, 2004). 
Applicant’s last alcohol-related incident was in December 2019 , more than five 
years ago, which is “a significant period of time.” After that incident, he abstained from 
alcohol until April 2022, when he and his wife shared a bottle of wine while on vacation. 
Afterwards, he consumed one or two drinks of liquor “less than monthly,” and he drank 
one to three beers one or two times a month. In February 2024, he was evaluated at 
DCSA’s request and diagnosed with alcohol use disorder, moderate, in sustained 
remission. However, the psychologist concluded that he could not give Applicant a 
favorable recommendation because of his continued use of alcohol. 
In November 2024 , after Applicant was made aware that his security clearance 
was in jeopardy , he execut ed a statement of intent acknowledging that any future 
involvement in drinking alcohol would be grounds for revocation of his national security 
eligibility. As of the date of the hearing in August 2025, he had not consumed alcohol 
since executing the statement. 
Applicant’s history of alcohol abuse reflects a long series of social incidents 
involving alcohol and bad judgment, but it does not necessarily constitute the “intractable 
condition” referred to in DSM-TR. To the contrary, he has demonstrated that he is able to 
control his alcohol use. He refrained from alcohol use during his military training in 2004 
and 2005 and during overseas military duty in 2011 and 2012. His last incident of alcohol 
abuse and last alcohol-related offense was in December 2019, almost six years ago. He 
abstained from alcohol from December 2019 to April 2022. He drank in moderation from 
April 2022 until November 2024, without any alcohol -related incidents. Recognizing that 
his continued alcohol use was the basis for the concern raised during his psychological 
evaluation and a potential impediment to maintaining his security clearance, he stopped 
drinking in November 2024 and submitted his letter of intent to refrain from further alcohol 
consumption. Based on the evidence and the relevant portions of DSM -TR regarding 
abstention and relapse, I am convinced that he likely will refrain from further alcohol 
9 
 
 
 
 
       
  
 
     
     
   
 
 
 
   
     
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
     
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
   
 
  
abuse. I find that AG ¶ 23(a) is established, and I conclude that Applicant’s alcohol abuse 
is mitigated by the passage of time without recurrence. 
AG ¶¶ 23(b), 23(c), and 23(d) are not established. Applicant’s completion of ASAP 
in 2009, treatment in June 2020, and treatment in January 2024 did not include any 
recommendations for modified consumption or abstinence. 
Guideline J, Criminal  Conduct  
The conduct alleged under Guideline G is cross-alleged under this guideline. The 
concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 30: “Criminal activity creates doubt about 
a person’s judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness. By its very nature, it calls into 
question a person's ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations.” 
The following disqualifying conditions under this guideline are relevant: 
AG  ¶  31(a): a pattern of  mi nor offenses,  any one of  which on i ts own would  
be unlikely to affect a national security eligibility decision, but which in  
combination cast doubt on the individual ’s judgment, reliability, or  
trustworthiness; and  
AG  ¶ 31(b):  evidence (including, but not limited to, a credible allegation,  an  
admi
ssion, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of  
whether the  individual  was formally charged,  prosecuted, or convicted.  
Based 
on Applicant’s record of seven alcohol -related charges and citations 
between 2001 and 2010 and his DUI in 2019, both disqualifying conditions are 
established. 
The following mitigating conditions are potentially relevant: 
AG ¶  32(a): so much time has  elaps
 ed since the criminal behavior  
happened,  or it happened under such unusual circumstances, that it is  
unlikely to recur  and  does not cast doubt  on the individual ’s reliability,  
trustworthiness, or  good judgment;  and  
AG ¶  32(d): there is  evidence of successful rehabilitation; including,  but  not  
l
imited t o,  the passage of time without  recurrence of  criminal activity,  
restitution, compliance with the terms of parole or probation, job training or  
higher  education, good employment record, or constructive community  
involvement.  
Both
 mitigating conditions are established, for the reasons set out in the above 
discussion of Guideline G. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
   
   
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
     
 
    
   
      
    
      
  
 
   
  
   
 
 
   
 
  
 
     
 
  
 
      
 
 
  
Whole-Person  Analysis  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant a security 
clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. An administrative judge must evaluate 
an applicant’s security eligibility by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct and 
all the relevant circumstances. An administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Security clearance adjudications are not intended to be punitive. An unfavorable 
security clearance decision should not be based on a notion that Applicant should be 
punished for his past misconduct. ISCR Case No. 03-24233 (App. Bd. Oct. 12, 2005). 
I have incorporated my comments under Guidelines G and J in my whole-person 
analysis and applied the adjudicative factors in AG ¶ 2(d). Applicant was candid, sincere, 
remorseful, and credible at the hearing. He has not had an alcohol -related incident or 
offense in almost s ix years. His alcohol use disorder was in sustained remission in 
January 2024, and there is no evidence of problematic drinking since then. He has an 
established history of several years of abstinence or drinking in moderation. This 
evidence mitigates the risk of future relapse and recurrence. After weighing the 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions under these g uidelines and evaluating all the 
evidence in the context of the whole person, I conclude Applicant has mitigated the 
security concerns raised by his alcohol use and criminal conduct. 
Formal Findings  
I make the following formal findings on the allegations in the SOR: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline G (Alcohol Consumption):  F
 OR APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.j:  For Applicant  
Paragraph 2, Guideline J (Criminal Conduct):  FOR APPLICANT  
Subparagraph 2.a:  For Applicant  
11 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
  
 
 
  
 
Conclusion  
I conclude that it is clearly consistent with the national security interests of the 
United States to grant Applicant eligibility for access to classified information. Clearance 
is granted. 
LeRoy F. Foreman 
Administrative Judge 
12 