 
 
                                                              
                         
          
           
             
 
 
    
  
       
   
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
      
    
 
 
  
       
    
    
     
    
    
 
    
   
 
 
      
______________ 
______________ 
DEPART
MENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-01925 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Carroll J. Connelley, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
12/17/2025 
Decision 
GARCIA, Candace Le’i, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not mitigate the security concerns under Guidelines H and E. 
Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
On January 16, 2025 , the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guidelines H ( drug 
involvement and substance misuse) and E ( personal conduct ). The action was taken 
under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry 
(February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel 
Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the 
adjudicative guidelines (AG) implemented by the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
Applicant responded to the SOR (Answer) on January 21, 2025, and elected to 
have the case decided on the written record in lieu of a hearing. The Government’s 
written case was submitted on March 12, 2025. A complete copy of the file of relevant 
material (FORM) was provided to Applicant, who was afforded an opportunity to file 
objections and submit material to refute, extenuate, or mitigate the security concerns. 
Applicant received the FORM on March 26, 2025, and he elected not to respond. The 
1 
 
 
    
   
 
   
    
 
 
 
       
       
   
     
  
   
    
 
 
 
  
   
    
 
  
 
 
     
   
   
   
   
    
 
     
 
    
   
    
 
  
  
      
case was assigned to me on July 3, 2025. The Government ’s documents identified as 
Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 6 are admitted in evidence without objection. 
This decision was delayed when all administrative judges were furloughed from 
October 1 through November 12, 2025, during a federal government shutdown due to a 
lapse in federal funding. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant admitted all the SOR allegations in his Answer. He is 27 years old. He 
lives with his parents. He graduated from high school in 2016. He was subsequently 
unemployed for one year, and then he worked for various non- defense contractors until 
May 2021. He then worked as an assembly contractor for a defense contractor from 
May 2021 to August 2022, when he was laid off. He was subsequently unemployed until 
July 2023. Since then, he has worked as a mechanical assembler for his employer, a 
defense contractor. He has never held a security clearance. (GE 1-3, 6) 
Applicant  used marijuana, with varying frequency, from  approximately  2012 to  
February 2022.  (SOR  ¶ 1.a ;  GE 2 -6)  In his December 10,  2021,  security clearance  
application (SCA), in response to “Section 23 –  Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity  
. . . Illegal Use of Drugs or Controlled Substances  In the last seven (7) years, have 
you illegally  used any  drugs or controlled substances? . . .  ,” Applicant  marked “Yes.”  
He  estimated that he f irst used marijuana in approximately April  2015,  and he estimated 
he had most recently used marijuana in approximately  February  2017. He stated:  
I smoked pot casually in and the following year out of high school. . . . It 
was purely a social thing I did with my friends at the time. Once I was out 
of high school and doing such a thing alone and on my own time is when I 
decided to stop. In the peak of it, mostly just weekends and occasional 
weekdays. So[,] 3 days a week [I’d] say consistently through that time 
frame. (GE 2) 
Applicant also estimated in his 2021 SCA that he first purchased marijuana for 
his personal use in approximately April 2015, and he estimated he had most recently 
purchased marijuana in June 2017. He also stated that he purchased marijuana from a 
friend while he was in high school and in the year after he graduated. He further stated 
that he intended to purchase marijuana in the future, and that if marijuana became legal 
in his state, he intended to purchase it legally from marijuana dispensaries. (GE 2) 
Applicant also marked “Yes” in response a question on his 2021 SCA that asked 
whether he intended to use marijuana in the future. He stated, “I do plan on smoking 
marijuana in my later years in life. Not until my kids are grown up and I am a happy old 
man. I do enjoy it and I do believe I am a functioning member of society when I am in 
the process of partaking. Aside though I have [given] it up for the time being.” (GE 2) 
During his February 2022 interview with an authorized background investigator, 
Applicant indicated he was still using marijuana up to the date of the interview. He 
indicated that upon trying marijuana in 2012 with high school friends , he immediately 
2 
 
 
   
    
    
  
   
  
      
    
 
   
  
   
   
 
      
   
   
 
  
 
  
 
   
    
 
 
 
    
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
became a regular user, and he used marijuana once weekly or more from 
approximately 2012 to 2016. He indicated he used marijuana at home, and it makes him 
feel relaxed. He also indicated he purchased marijuana from friends or acquaintances 
during this period. Marijuana became legal in the state in which he resides in 2016, and 
he indicated that has purchased marijuana from dispensaries in his state since the first 
one opened in 2018. He spent an average of $300 to $500 weekly on marijuana. He 
indicated that his marijuana use was common knowledge, but his parents might not be 
aware of his exact amount of usage. (GE 6) 
Applicant indicated during his 2022 background interview that he stopped using 
marijuana for approximately six months before he was hired as an assembly contractor 
for a defense contractor in May 2021. He indicated he knew this employer required a 
drug test, and he wanted to pass it. He indicated he resumed daily marijuana use in July 
2021. He acknowledged he intentionally falsified his 2021 SCA , when he disclosed t hat 
his last use of marijuana was in 2017, because he did not want it to jeopardize his 
employment. He indicated that the disclosures he made on his 2021 SCA regarding 
purchasing marijuana legally from marijuana dispensaries in his state were to cover 
himself in case he was randomly drug tested. He also indicated that he did not 
understand the difference between marijuana being legal in his state but federally 
illegal. He explained he did not fully understand the security clearance process and that 
holding a clearance is a privilege. He further indicated he would give up marijuana for 
as long as he possesses a security clearance. He also acknowledged that he knew his 
employer drug tested and although he assumed he was not supposed to use illegal 
drugs, he did not actually recall knowing the ramifications of illegal drug use. He 
indicated he assumed he could lose his job, which he did not want to happen. (GE 6) 
In his September 17,  2024, SCA, in response to “ Section 23  –  Illegal Use of  
Drugs or Drug Activity  . . . In the last seven (7) years,  have you illegally used any  
drugs or controlled substances? . . .  ,” Applicant  marked “Yes.” He estimated  that he  
first used marijuana in approximately April  2015,  and he also estimated he had most  
recently used marijuana in approximately  February  2018. He  stated he used marijuana  
for personal pleasure a few times  a week, “It was  a social thing I did with my  friends in  
high school and for  a few years after. . .  . Getting older now,  moving past it.” (GE  3)  He  
also disclosed  he first  purchased marijuana in April 2015,  and that  he had most recently  
purchased it in February 2018.  (GE 3)  
In his January 2025 response to interrogatories, Applicant approximated that he 
first used marijuana in May 2014 and that he last used it in February 2022. He stated 
that he used it daily, and he had no intention of using it in the future. (GE 4-5) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
3 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
     
  
 
   
 
  
   
    
 
  
   
    
    
    
   
 
  
      
    
     
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
  
   
    
  
 
 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According 
to AG ¶ 2(c), the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables 
known as the “whole -person concept.” The a dministrative judge must consider all 
available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. The protection of the national security is the 
paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel 
being considered for national security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national 
security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, 
or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The 
applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation of potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of 
the national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline H, Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse   
AG ¶ 24 expresses the security concern pertaining to drug involvement and 
substance misuse as: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior 
may lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. 
4 
 
 
  
   
 
    
 
    
       
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
       
   
 
    
 
    
   
    
   
    
  
   
      
    
   
AG ¶ 25 describes conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying. I considered the following relevant: “(a) any substance misuse . . .”; and 
“(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation, processing, 
manufacture, purchase, sale, or distribution; or possession of drug paraphernalia.” 
Applicant used marijuana with varying frequency from about 2012 to February 
2022. AG ¶¶ 25(a) and 25(c) are established. 
AG ¶ 26 provides the following potentially relevant mitigating conditions: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or ha
 ppened  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur  or does not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability,  trustworthiness,  or good judgment;  
and  
(b) the individual acknowledges  his  or her drug involvement  and  
substance misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this  
problem,  and has  established a pattern of  abstinence, including,  but not  
limited to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-usi ng associates and contacts;  
(2) changing or  avoi ding the environment where drugs were used;  
and  
(3) providing a signed statement  of i ntent to abstain from  all drug  
involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future  
involvement  or misuse is grounds for revocation of  national security  
eligibility.  
Appli
cant used marijuana from 2012 to 2022. He provided false information about 
his marijuana usage on his 2021 SCA, which he sought to correct during his 2022 
background interview. But he then provided false information about his marijuana use 
again, on his 2024 SCA, and he only attempted to correct this information when he was 
asked drug questions during his 2025 response to interrogatories. 
While Applicant indicated during his 2022 background interview that he did not 
understand the difference between marijuana being legal in his state but federally 
illegal, it is evident by the other information he provided during that interview that he 
knew the ramifications for his illegal marijuana use. He admitted he stopped using 
marijuana for six months before he was hired by a defense contractor in May 2021 
because he knew this employer required a drug test , and he wanted to pass it so that 
he would not jeopardize his employment. He also admitted that the disclosures he made 
on his 2021 SCA regarding purchasing marijuana legally from marijuana dispensaries in 
his state were to cover himself in case he was randomly drug tested. He also 
acknowledged that he knew his employer drug tested, and that he was not supposed to 
use illegal drugs because it could lead to him losing his job. He stated that his parents, 
while aware of his drug use, are unaware of the full extent of it. He did not provide a 
5 
 
 
   
     
    
  
 
 
     
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
       
 
 
    
 
    
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
statement of intent to abstain from all drug involvement and substance misuse. Given 
the length of time in which he has used marijuana, and his falsifications about his 
marijuana usage, not enough time has passed since his last use in 2022 to establish a 
pattern of abstinence. None of the mitigating conditions are established. 
Guideline  E, Personal Conduct  
The security concern for personal conduct is set out in AG ¶ 15:    
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to 
cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 16. The following is potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) deliberate omission, concealment,  or falsification of relevant facts from  
any personnel  security questionnaire, personal history statement, or  
similar form  used to conduct investigations, determine employment  
qualifications, award benefits or status, determine national security  
eligibility or trustworthiness,  or award fiduciary responsibilities.  
Applicant marked “Yes;” however, he failed to accurately disclose his marijuana 
use in response to relevant questions in section 23 of his 2021 and 2024 SCA’s. He 
admitted to falsifying his responses on both SCA’s. AG ¶ 16(a) is established. 
Conditions that could mitigate the personal conduct security concerns are 
provided under AG ¶ 17. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a) the individual  mad
 e prompt,  good-faith efforts to correct the omission,  
concealment,  or falsification before being confronted with the facts;  
(c) the offense is so minor, or so much time has passed, or the behavior is  
so i
nfrequent, or it happened under such unique circumstances that it is  
unlikely to recur  and  does not cast doubt  on the individual ’s reliability,  
trustworthiness, or  good judgment;  
(d) the individual has acknowledged the behavior and obtained counseling  
to c
hange the be havior or taken other positive steps to alleviate the  
stressors, circumstances, or factors that  contributed to untrustworthy,  
unreliable, or other inappropriate behavior,  and such behavior is unlikely  
to recur;  and  
(e) the individual has taken positive steps to reduce or eliminate  
vul
nerability to exploitation,  manipulation, or duress.  
6 
 
 
    
   
  
  
 
  
      
    
 
 
 
   
      
      
   
 
 
     
   
   
  
    
     
      
      
    
 
 
  
  
 
   
 
    
 
    
 
    
Applicant admittedly falsified information about his marijuana usage on two 
SCA’s—his 2021 and his 2024 SCA’s. His corrections, during his 2022 background 
interview, of his falsifications on his 2021 SCA are overcome by the falsifications about 
his marijuana usage that he made on his 2024 SCA. While he disclosed more marijuana 
use on his 2025 response to interrogatories, he only did so because he was asked 
questions about his drug use. Questions remain about his reliability, trustworthiness, 
and judgment. His deliberate omissions are not minor, and they occurred recently, in 
2021 and 2024. As such, I find that AG ¶¶ 17(a), 17(c), 17(d), and 17(e) are not 
established. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5)  the  extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of  
rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation  
for the conduct; (8) the potential for  pressure, coercion, exploitation,  or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2( c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance m ust be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. I considered the 
potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and 
circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guidelines H and E in this whole -person analysis. Overall, the record evidence leaves 
me with questions and doubts as to Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security 
clearance. I conclude Applicant did not mitigate the drug involvement and substance 
misuse and personal conduct security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  G
 uideline H:   AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraph 1.a:   Against  Applicant  
Paragraph 2,  Guideline E:  AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  2.a-2.b:  Against  Applicant  
7 
 
 
 
       
       
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant’s eligibility for a security 
clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Candace Le’i Garcia 
Administrative Judge 
8 