 
                   
          
           
             
 
 
 
    
  
      
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
      
        
     
       
     
     
        
   
     
 
        
       
  
ft 
0 =~~~~'.:,~' 0 \w > 't, 
00 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
,\-\ 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
[Redacted] ) ISCR Case No. 24-00254 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Alison O’Connell, Esq. 
For Applicant: Pro se 
02/24/2025 
Decision 
FOREMAN, LeRoy F., Administrative Judge: 
This case involves security concerns raised under Guidelines J (Criminal Conduct) 
and E (Personal Conduct). Clearance is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on February 21, 2023. 
On May 21, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) sent 
him a Statement of Reasons alleging security concerns under Guidelines J and E. The 
DCSA acted under Executive Order ( Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified 
Information within Industry (February 20, 19 60), as amended ; Department of Defense 
(DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) 
promulgated in Securi ty Executive Agent Directive 4, National Security Adjudicative 
Guidelines (December 10, 2016), which became effective on June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR on July 30, 20 24, and requested a n expedited 
hearing. Department Counsel was ready to proceed on September 3, 2024, and the case 
 
 
 
          
       
        
        
 
         
      
   
   
 
 
            
       
       
      
   
 
 
      
        
          
            
         
         
         
        
  
 
         
           
             
         
    
 
           
        
         
       
         
        
was assigned to me on December 5, 2024. On December 19, 2024, the Defense Office 
of Hearings and Appeals notified Applicant that the hearing was scheduled to be 
conducted by video teleconference on January 16, 2025 . I convened the hearing as 
scheduled. Government Exhibits 1 through 4 were admitted in evidence without objection. 
Applicant testified but did not present the testimony of any other witnesses or 
submit any documentary evidence. I kept the record open until January 31, 2025 , to 
enable him to submit documentary evidence. He did not submit any additional evidence. 
DOHA received the transcript on January 28, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted all the allegations in the SOR. His 
admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact. Applicant is a 37 -year-old candidate 
for employment by a defense contractor who is sponsoring him for a security clearance. 
He obtained a general educational development certificate in 2006. He is engaged to be 
married, and his fiancée is pregnant. He has never held a security clearance. 
In  August 2005, Applicant robbed  a  patron  at  gunpoint  behind  a  bar.  While  he  was 
being questioned  by police  about this robbery, he  admitted three  other armed  robberies. 
He was charged  with  four counts of robbery in the  2nd  degree  and  possessing  a  pistol  
without a  permit. He  was convicted  and  sentenced  to  incarceration  for ten  years, with  five  
and  a  half years suspended, and  placed  on  probation  for five  years.  (GX 3) When  he  was  
questioned  by  a  security investigator  in April 2023, he  claimed  that  his confession  to  the  
three  additional robberies was coerced.  (GX 2 at 6)   
Between September 2006 and October 2008, Applicant was disciplined while 
incarcerated for two instances of disobeying an order , giving false information, causing 
disruption, and interfering with safety. He testified that he was disciplined when he was 
having a conversation with a security officer , and he reached toward the officer to put 
more space between them. (Tr. 33) He testified that he was uncertain of the basis for the 
allegation of giving false information, but it probably was when he provided the last four 
digits of his Social Security number instead of his inmate number. (Tr. 34) While he was 
incarcerated, he was required to complete a drug -education program and anger -
management classes. (GX 2 at 6) 
In June 2011, while on probation, Applicant was charged with possession of 
narcotics and possession of drug s near a prohibited location. He testified that he had 
started to use cocaine about a month before this arrest, and this charge arose when he 
was arrested at a public beach where he had gone to exchange narcotics. (Tr. 24-25) 
This incident was the basis for the probation violation alleged in SOR ¶ 2.c. 
Before the June 2011 drug charges were resolved, Applicant was arrested in 
August 2011 for armed robbery of a convenience store. (T r. 27). He was charged with 
robbery in the first degree, criminal possession of a pistol or revolver, burglary in the third 
degree, interfering with or resisting apprehension, two counts of larceny in the sixth 
degree, and criminal mischief in the third degree. He entered an Alford plea to the robbery 
charge and pleaded guilty to criminal possession of a pistol or revolver. For the robbery, 
2 
 
 
 
 
      
        
      
  
 
       
           
         
         
       
        
 
 
 
        
          
           
       
       
      
       
 
       
        
 
         
      
       
    
 
           
   
         
      
         
    
 
        
              
          
he  was sentenced  to  twelve  years of incarceration  with  five  years of special parole.  For 
the  criminal possession  of a  pistol  or revolver he  was  sentenced  to  three  years of  
incarceration, to  be  served  concurrently with  the  sentence  for  robbery. (GX 4) He was  
released  from  prison  and  placed  on  special  parole  in April 2021.  (GX 1  at  22) As a  
condition  of the  special parole, he  is  tested  for illegal drug  use  every three  months.  (Tr. 
30)  He will be  on special parole until 2029. (GX 4; Tr. 29-30)  
When Applicant was questioned by a security investigator about his criminal 
record, he attributed it to being young, impulsive, and not thinking clearly because of his 
heavy use of marijuana. He told the investigator that he has not used marijuana for over 
11 years. (GX 4 at 7) 
Since February 2022, Applicant has been employed by a tire distributor as the 
assistant manager of a tire store. His current lifestyle is busy. He awakens at 4:00 am, 
walks his two puppies, makes sure that everything is in order in his house, leaves for work 
at 6:30 am, and starts work at 7:00 am. He works long hours, as much as 14 hours a day, 
six days a week. He prides himself for providing exceptional service to the store’s 
customers and takes credit for doubling the store’s sales since he started working there. 
(Tr. 35-36) 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
decision. An a dministrative judge must consider all available and reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865 
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant 
3 
 
 
 
      
  
 
    
    
        
       
            
          
         
       
      
     
       
         
        
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
     
       
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
   
has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have 
established for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for acc ess to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan at 531. Substantial 
evidence is “such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to 
support a conclusion in light of all the contrary evidence in the same record.” See ISCR 
Case No. 17 -04166 at 3 (App. Bd. Mar. 21, 2019) It is “less than the weight of the 
evidence, and the possibility of drawing two inconsistent conclusions from the evidence 
does not prevent [a Judge’s] finding from being supported by substantial evidence.” 
Consolo v. Federal Maritime Comm’n, 383 U.S. 607, 620 (1966). “Substantial evidence” 
is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. Washington Metro. Area 
Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines presume a nexus or 
rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria listed therein and 
an applicant’s security suitability. ISCR Case No. 15-01253 at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 20, 2016). 
Once  the  Government establishes a  disqualifying  condition  by substantial 
evidence, the  burden  shifts to  the  applicant  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or mitigate  the  
facts.  Directive ¶  E3.1.15. An  applicant has  the  burden  of proving  a  mitigating  condition,  
and  the  burden  of  disproving  it never shifts  to  the  Government. See  ISCR  Case  No. 02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005).  
An applicant “has the ultimate burden  of demonstrating  that it is clearly consistent  
with the national interest to grant or continue  his security clearance.”  ISCR Case No. 01-
20700  at 3  (App. Bd. Dec.  19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance  determinations should  err, if 
they must, on the side  of denials.” Egan  at 531.   
Analysis  
Guideline  J, Criminal Conduct  
The concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 30: “Criminal activity creates 
doubt about a person's judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness. By its very nature, it 
calls into question a person's ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and 
regulations.” 
Applicant’s admissions  and  the  evidence  submitted  at the  hearing  establish  the  
following disqualifying  conditions under this guideline:  
AG ¶  31(b): evidence (including, but not limited to, a credible allegation, an 
admission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of 
whether the individual was formally charged, prosecuted, or convicted; and 
AG ¶  31(c): individual is currently on parole or probation. 
The following mitigating conditions are potentially relevant: 
4 
 
 
 
 
       
  
      
  
 
   
         
      
    
 
 
         
       
         
        
         
       
           
 
 
 
 
        
          
   
    
     
          
        
     
     
AG ¶  32(a): so much time has elapsed since the criminal behavior happened, 
or it happened under such unusual circumstances, that it is unlikely to recur 
and does not cast doubt on the individual's reliability, trustworthiness, or 
good judgment; and 
AG ¶  32(d): there is evidence of successful rehabilitation; including, but not 
limited to, the passage of time without recurrence of criminal activity, 
restitution, compliance with the terms of parole or probation, job training or 
higher education, good em ployment record, or constructive community 
involvement. 
Neither mitigating condition is established. The first prong of AG ¶ 32(a) focuses 
on whether the criminal conduct was recent. There are no bright line rules for determining 
when conduct is recent. The determination must be based on a careful evaluation of the 
totality of the evidence. If the evidence shows a significant period of time has passed 
without any evidence of misconduct, then an administrative judge must determine 
whether that period of time demonstrates changed circumstances or conduct sufficient to 
warrant a finding of reform or rehabilitation. See ISCR Case No. 02-24452 at 6 (App. Bd. 
Aug. 4, 2004). 
Applicant’s last  criminal conduct was in  June  2011, and  a  significant period  of time  
has passed  without further misconduct.  He  is  engaged  and  will  soon  be  a  father.  He  is  
gainfully employed.  However, Applicant was incarcerated  until  April 2021  and  will  be  on  
special parole  until  2029. He  has  a  long  record  of  violent criminal conduct  fueled  at  times  
by illegal  drug  use. I am  not convinced  that  he  will  not  revert  to  his previous criminal  
conduct when  he  is no  longer constrained  by the  terms of his special parole.  “Once  a  
concern arises regarding  an  applicant’s security clearance  eligibility,  there is a  strong  
presumption  against  the  grant or maintenance  of  a  security clearance.” ISCR  Case  No.  
09-01652  at  3  (App. Bd. Aug.  8,  2011),  citing  Dorfmont v.  Brown,  913  F.2d  1399, 1401  
(9th  Cir. 1990),  cert.  denied, 499  U.S. 905  (1991).  Applicant  has made  considerable  
progress toward  becoming  a  reliable and  responsible  person,  but he  has not  yet  
overcome this strong presumption.  
Guideline E, Personal Conduct  
The security concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 15: “Conduct involving 
questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or unwillingness to comply with rules 
and regulations can raise questions about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and 
ability to protect classified or sensitive information. . . .” 
SOR ¶ 2.a cross-alleges Applicant’s conduct, convictions, criminal convictions, 
and sentences alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.c above. SOR ¶ 2.b alleges the disciplinary action 
imposed on Applicant between September 2006 and October 2008, while he was 
incarcerated. SOR ¶ 2.c alleges Applicant’s probation violation in July 2012. 
The following disqualifying conditions under this guideline are relevant: 
5 
 
 
 
        
           
   
    
        
  
      
 
 
 
 
  
AG ¶  16(d): credible  adverse information  that  is not explicitly covered  under  
any other guideline  and  may not be  sufficient by itself for an  adverse  
determination, but which, when  combined  with  all  available  information,  
supports a  whole-person  assessment of questionable judgment,  
untrustworthiness,  unreliability, lack  candor,  unwillingness  to  comply with  
rules and  regulations, or other characteristics  indicating  that the  individual  
may not  properly safeguard classified  or sensitive  information. This  
includes, but is not limited to, consideration of . . (2) any disruptive, violent,  
or other inappropriate  behavior;  [and] (3) a  pattern of  dishonesty or rule  
violations  . . . and  
AG ¶  16(e): personal conduct,  or concealment of information  about  one's  
conduct,  that creates a  vulnerability to  exploitation, manipulation, or duress 
by a  foreign  intelligence  entity or other individual or group. Such  conduct 
includes  .  .  . engaging  in activities which, if  known,  could  affect  the  person's  
personal, professional, or community standing.  
AG ¶   16(d)  is established   by Applicant’s his infraction  of prison  rules while   
incarcerated, alleged in SOR ¶ 2.b, and  his probation violation, alleged in  SOR ¶  2.c.  
AG ¶ 16(e) is established by Applicant’s criminal convictions, alleged in SOR ¶¶ 
1.a-1.c, and cross -alleged in SOR ¶ 2.a, which adversely affect ed his personal, 
professional, and community standing. 
The following mitigating condition is potentially applicable: 
AG ¶  17(c): the offense is so minor, or so much time has passed, or the 
behavior is so infrequent, or it happened under such unique circumstances 
that it is unlikely to recur and does not cast doubt on the individual's 
reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment. 
This mitigating  condition  is  established  for  Applicant’s violations  of prison  rules  
alleged  in  SOR ¶  2.b, and  probation  violation  alleged  in  SOR ¶  2.c,  which  occurred  many 
years ago. It is not established for the  serious misconduct cross-alleged in SOR ¶ 2.a.   
6 
 
 
 
 
       
   
         
    
          
   
 
         
      
      
        
      
     
   
   
 
         
           
            
      
   
 
 
     
 
  
 
     
 
  
 
       
    
 
 
  
       
 
 
 
 
 
Whole-Person  Analysis   
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant a security 
clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole -person concept. An administrative judge must evaluate 
an appellant’s security eligibility by considering the totality of the appellant’s conduct and 
all the relevant circumstances. An administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
I have incorporated my comments under Guidelines J and E in my whole-person 
analysis and applied the adjudicative factors in AG ¶ 2(d). After weighing the disqualifying 
and mitigating conditions under those guidelines and evaluating all the evidence in the 
context of the whole person, I conclude Applicant has not mitigated the security concerns 
raised by his criminal conduct and personal conduct. 
Formal Findings  
I make the following formal findings on the allegations in the SOR: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline J (Criminal Conduct):  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.d:  Against Applicant 
Paragraph  2, Guideline E (Personal Conduct):  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  2.a:  Against Applicant 
Subparagraphs  2.b  and 2.c:  For Applicant 
Conclusion  
I conclude that it is not clearly consistent with the national security interests of the 
United States to grant Applicant eligibility for access to classified information. Clearance 
is denied. 
LeRoy F. Foreman 
Administrative Judge 
7 