 
 
 
                                                              
                             
          
           
             
 
    
  
       
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
     
  
  
    
    
   
 
 
    
       
  
              
______________ 
______________ 
DEPART
MENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00549 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Cynthia Ruckno, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
07/30/2025 
Decision 
BENSON, Pamela C., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant mitigate d the security concerns under Guidelines G (alcohol 
consumption) and E (personal conduct) . Eligibility for access to classified information is 
granted. 
Statement of the Case  
On April 23, 202 4, the Department of Defense (D OD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guidelines G and E. The 
DOD acted under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information 
within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of Defense (DOD) 
Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program 
(January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines implemented 
by the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
On May 28, 2024, Applicant provided a response to the SOR . (Answer) He 
admitted SOR ¶ ¶ 1.a through 1.e and 2.c. He denied SOR ¶¶ 2.a , 2.b, and 2.d. He 
requested a hearing before a Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) 
administrative judge. I was assigned this case on January 3, 2025. DOHA issued a 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
     
 
  
   
 
 
     
    
   
    
    
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
   
     
  
   
  
   
    
   
    
  
    
   
   
notice on May 1, 2025, scheduling the hearing for May 21, 2025. The hearing 
proceeded as scheduled via online video teleconferencing. 
Department Counsel submitted Government  Exhibits (GE)  1 through 8; Applicant  
testified and offered  12  documents, which I labeled as Applicant Exhibits (AE) A  through  
L. All of the exhibits were admitted into evidence without objection.  Department Counsel  
requested that  I take  administrative notice of certain provisions  of the Diagnostic and 
Statistical Manual of  Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM -5). Without objection, I have  
taken administrative  notice of the DSM -5 in general and specifically as requested.  
(Hearing Exhibit (HE) II)  
During the May 21, 2025 hearing, Department Counsel withdrew SOR ¶ 2.b, a 
single allegation under Guideline E of the SOR . I held the record open until June 21, 
2025, in the event either party wanted to supplement the record. Applicant timely 
submitted AE M, which was admitted into evidence without objection. DOHA received 
the hearing transcript (Tr.) on May 28, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 38-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked as a 
systems administrator for his current employer since about April 2016. He served active 
duty in the Army from about November 2010 to June 2016, when he was honorably 
discharged. He served part time in the Army National Guard from June 2016 until June 
2018, when he received an honorable discharge. He has a liberal arts degree from a 
community college. He is unmarried and does not have any children. He has maintained 
a security clearance since leaving the military in 2018. (Tr. 26-28; GE 1) 
Alcohol Consumption and Personal Conduct  
Applicant consumed alcohol, at times to excess and to the point of intoxication, 
on various occasions up until at least April 2024. ( SOR ¶ 1.a) He admitted this 
information in his response to the SOR. (Answer; Tr. 50-52; GE 2) 
SOR ¶ 1 .b alleges in about October 2018, Applicant passed out while driving 
home. He had consumed alcohol at a bar and drove his car off the side of the road. He 
stated he had consumed approximately two or three mixed drinks at the bar. He 
believed his drinks were “spiked ” with an unknown substance because he could not 
remember leaving the bar. He woke up after a police officer tapped his car window, and 
he felt “woozy” performing the field sobriety tests. He refused to take a breathalyzer 
test. He was subsequently charged with reckless driving and convicted of driving left of 
center. Applicant reported this incident to his security officer. He had this charge 
expunged in about 2019. (GE 2, 3; Tr. 28-36) 
SOR ¶ 1. c alleges in about August 2020, Applicant was charged with driving 
under the influence (DUI). He had been at the same bar with friends watching a football 
game. Applicant stated that he drank one beer and one mixed cocktail. He was pulled 
2 
 
 
 
      
    
    
 
     
  
 
         
 
    
     
     
  
    
 
 
      
   
  
   
 
   
     
     
      
     
 
   
 
        
 
  
   
   
  
  
   
     
      
   
  
   
 
over by police for swerving, and he was arrested after he failed the field sobriety test. 
He refused to take a breathalyzer test at the jailhouse. He lost driving privileges from 
August 2020 to about May 2021, and he had to attend the Alcohol and Drug Safety 
Action Program (ADSAP) for four weeks in January 2021. His trial date was delayed 
until January 2023 due to C OVID-19 restrictions. Applicant reported this incident to his 
security officer. In January 2023, the charge was reduced to reckless driving, as set 
forth in SOR ¶ 2.c, below. (GE 2, 4; Tr. 36-43, 58; AE M) 
SOR ¶ 1.d alleges in about May 2021, Applicant was charged with DUI. He was 
at a bar with friends for karaoke. H e testified he drank three or four beers when he left 
the bar. He was pulled over by police for swerving, and he was arrested after he failed 
the field sobriety test . H is driving privileges were suspended, and he had to attend 
ADSAP from January 2022 until April 2022. His trial date was delayed until January 
2023 due to C OVID-19 restrictions. Applicant reported this incident to his security 
officer. In January 2023, the charge was reduced to reckless driving. ( GE 2, 4, 7; Tr. 
43-46) 
SOR ¶ 1.e alleges in about January 2022, Applicant was diagnosed with alcohol 
use disorder, mild, while attending ADSAP. He admitted this information in his Answer 
and explained at the hearing he received this diagnosis because he had two DUI 
arrests. (Tr. 46-47; GE 7; HE II) 
During a November 9, 2022 background interview, Applicant told the investigator 
that he normally drinks two to three beers or mixed drinks on either Friday or Saturday 
night. In his interrogatory he signed on April 8, 2024, Applicant listed he currently drinks 
three or four beers, and one tequila shot every weekend. He estimated that he became 
intoxicated about 60 percent of the time he drinks. When Applicant was queried about 
this during the hearing, he stated, “I’ve made better decisions since then.” He admitted 
he currently consumes a couple of beers on the weekends, and he no longer drives if 
he is drinking alcohol. (GE 2; Tr. 50-53, 77-80) He stated, 
…with all the stuff that transpired is just a lot that I had to learn, and forced 
me to become a better person, make better decisions, learn from my 
mistakes, and just try not to repeat them, and move forward, and hopefully 
never have to be in this situation again. And so [I am] still working on that, 
working on just making better decisions overall in life, not just with alcohol, 
just in general, and just progressively moving forward. 
In about 2020, Applicant received counseling at the Veterans Affairs ( VA) for his 
condition diagnosed as post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and to deal with his grief 
after two close family members passed away a few months apart earlier that year. In 
about June 2021, he started seeing a specific mental health professional to effectively 
deal with his stress and identify triggers. Applicant stated that he continues counseling 
every month, and he believes the counseling has been effective. (Tr. 51, 54-56, 73) 
3 
 
 
     
  
 
    
   
    
       
    
 
        
 
   
      
 
 
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
     
  
  
   
   
SOR ¶ 2 .a cross-alleged under Guideline E all of the SOR allegations under 
Guideline G. 
SOR ¶ 2.c alleged Applicant was charged with reckless driving in January 2023. 
He admitted this in his Answer, but he explained that this was a reduced charge from 
his August 2020 DUI arrest. A police officer issued a new ticket for the reckless driving 
charge, but he used the current date instead of backdating the citation to the August 
2020 incident. After the hearing, Applicant timely submitted clear and convincing 
information from the court magistrate that the ticket date was written in error. This SOR 
allegation is repetitive to SOR ¶ 1.c, and I find it in favor of Applicant. SOR ¶ 2.d, which 
alleged Applicant falsified his interrogatories when he failed to disclose his 2023 
reckless driving violation, is also found in favor of Applicant because this was not a new 
charge but related to the incident in SOR ¶ 1.c. (AE J, K, M; Tr. 62-71) 
Policies  
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DoD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines (AG), which became 
effective on June 8, 2017. 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According 
to AG ¶ 2(c), the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables 
known as the “whole -person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all 
available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, 
or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The 
applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
4 
 
 
 
  
 
    
   
    
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
     
   
 
 
 
    
 
     
  
 
    
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation of potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Alcohol Consumption and Personal Conduct  
AG ¶ 21 describes the security concern about alcohol consumption, “Excessive 
alcohol consumption often leads to the exercise of questionable judgment or the failure 
to control impulses and can raise questions about an individual’s reliability and 
trustworthiness.” 
AG ¶ 15 describes the security concern about personal conduct, “C onduct 
involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or unwillingness to comply 
with rules and regulations can raise questions about an individual’s reliability, 
trustworthiness and ability to protect classified or sensitive information. Of special 
interest is any failure to cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during 
national security clearance investigative or adjudicative processes. The following will 
normally result in an unfavorable national security eligibility determination, security 
clearance action, or cancellation of further processing for national security eligibility.” 
AG ¶ 22 provides conditions that could raise an alcohol consumption security 
concern and may be disqualifying in this case as follows: 
(a) alcohol-related incidents  aw
 ay from work, such as  driving while under  
the influence, fighting, child or spouse abuse,  disturbing the peace, or  
other incidents  of concern, regardless of the frequency of the individual’s  
alcohol use or whether the individual has  been diagnosed with alcohol use  
disorder;  and   
(d) diagnosis by a duly qualified medical or mental health professional  
(e.
g.  physician, clinical psychologist,  psychiatrist, or licensed clinical social  
worker) of alcohol use disorder.  
5 
 
 
 
      
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
     
    
 
     
 
 
 
AG ¶ 16 describes conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying. The following disqualifying conditions are potentially applicable: 
(a) deliberate omission, concealment,  or f
 alsification of relevant facts from  
any  personnel security questionnaire, personal history statement, or  
similar form  used to conduct investigations, determine employment  
qualifications, award benefits or status, determine  national security  
eligibility or trustworthiness,  or award fiduciary responsibilities; and  
(d) credible adverse information that is not explicitly covered under any  
other  gui
deline and may not be sufficient by itself for an adverse  
determination,  but which, when combined with all available information,  
supports a whole- person assessment  of questionable judgment,  
untrustworthiness,  unreliability, lack of candor, unwillingness to comply  
with rules and regulations,  or other characteristics indicating that the  
individual  may not properly safeguard classified or sensitive information.  
This includes, but is not limited to, consideration of:  
(1) untrustworthy or  unr eliable behavior to include breach of client  
confidentiality, release of proprietary information, unauthorized  
release of sensitive corporate or government  protected information;   
(2) any disruptive, violent,  or ot her inappropriate behavior;   
(3) a pattern of  dis honesty or rule violations;  and  
(4) evidence of significant  mi suse of  Government or other  
employer’s time or resources.  
Appli
cant’s admissions and the record evidence support application of AG ¶¶ 
22(a), 22(d), and 16(d). AG ¶ 16(a) does not apply because Applicant did not falsify any 
information. Discussion of the disqualifying conditions is in the mitigating section, below. 
AG ¶ 23 lists four conditions that could mitigate alcohol consumption security 
concerns: 
(a) so much time has passed,  or t he behavior was so infrequent, or it  
happened under such unusual circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or  
does not cast doubt on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  
or judgment;  
(b) the individual acknowledges his  or h er pattern of maladaptive  alcohol  
use, provides  evidence of  actions taken to  overcome this  problem, and  
has demonstrated a clear and established pattern of modified  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
   
   
     
    
 
   
    
  
   
     
     
  
 
 
  
 
    
   
 
consumption or  abstinence in accordance with treatment  
recommendations;  
(c) the individual is participating in counseling or a treatment program, has  
no prev
ious history of treatment  and relapse, and is making satisfactory  
progress in a treatment program;  and  
(d) the individual has  suc cessfully completed a treatment program  along  
with any required aftercare and has demonstrated a clear  and established  
pattern of  modified  consumption or  abstinence in accordance with 
treatment recommendations.  
AG ¶ 
17 provides conditions that could mitigate personal conduct security 
concerns. The following are potentially applicable: 
(c) the offense is so minor, or so much time has passed, or the behavior is  
so i
nfrequent, or it happened under such unique circumstances that it is  
unlikely to recur  and  does not cast doubt  on the  individual’s reliability,  
trustworthiness, or  good judgment;  and  
(d) the individual has acknowledged the behavior and obtained counseling  
to c
hange the be havior or taken other positive steps to alleviate the  
stressors, circumstances, or factors that  contributed to untrustworthy,  
unreliable, or other inappropriate behavior,  and such behavior is unlikely  
to recur.  
All the
 alleged and established problematic conduct related to Applicant’s excessive 
drinking ended years ago, and after he learned to deal with issues related to PTSD and 
grief through therapy . He has received counseling since 2020 to change his poor 
decision-making, and he has continued counseling to date to help him become a more 
responsible individual. He has had no alcohol related incidents for the past four year s, 
which supports a finding that his current alcohol use is responsible. Applicant was 
credible and forthright during the hearing. He reported all criminal charges to his 
security officer, and he did not falsify relevant information during the course of his 
security clearance investigation. I find the conduct is unlikely to recur, and it no longer 
casts doubt on Applicant’s reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment. AG ¶¶ 22(a), 
22(b), 22(c), 17(c), and 1 7(d) are applicable. Applicant successfully mitigated the 
security concerns under Guidelines G and E. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
7 
 
 
 
   
  
   
    
  
 
 
     
    
     
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
(1) The nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent  to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of  
rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation  
for the conduct; (8) the potential for  pressure, coercion, exploitation,  or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. I have incorporated my 
comments under Guidelines G and E and in my whole -person analysis. I also 
considered Applicant’s favorable character evidence. 
Applicant has taken positive steps in his life to be more accountable and to stop 
repeating his past mistakes. Overall, the record evidence leaves me without questions 
or doubts about Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. I conclude 
Applicant mitigated the security concerns under Guidelines G and E. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  G
 uideline G:   FOR  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a-1.e:  For  Applicant  
Paragraph 2, Guideline E:   FOR  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  2.a , 2.c, and 2.d:  For  A pplica nt  
Subparagraph 2.b:  Withdrawn  
Conclusion  
It
 is clearly consistent with the national interest to continue Applicant’s eligibility 
for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Pamela C. Benson 
Administrative Judge 
8 