 
 
  
 
  
       DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
       DEFENSE  OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS  
           
             
  
  
     
                 
   
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
    
    
     
     
  
  
 
  
  
___________ 
___________ 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance  
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 24-02229 
Appearances  
For Government: Sakeena Farhath, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
09/26/2025 
Decision 
HARVEY, Mark, Administrative Judge: 
Security concerns arising under Guidelines H (drug involvement and substance 
misuse) and J (criminal conduct) ar e not mitigated. Eligibility for access to classified 
information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On May 14, 2020, and July 8, 2024, Applicant completed and signed Electronic 
Questionnaires for Investigations Processing (e- QIP) or security clearance applications 
(SCAs). (Government Exhibit (GE) 1 ; GE 2 ) On February 19, 2025, the Defense 
Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) issued a statement of reasons (SOR) 
to Applicant under Executive O rder (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classifie d 
Information within Industry, February 20, 1960; Department of Defense ( DOD) Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (Directive), 
January 2, 1992; and Security Executive Agent Directive 4, establishing in Appendix A 
the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to 
Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AGs), effective June 8, 
2017. (Hearing Exhibit (HE) 2) 
The SOR detailed reasons why the DCSA did not find under the Directive that it is 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant or continue a security 
 
 
 
     
     
   
 
      
  
    
       
 
 
  
 
 
      
        
 
    
      
  
  
 
 
 
   
      
   
  
 
  
    
 
   
 
       
    
    
        
   
 
clearance for Applicant and recommended referral to an administrative judge to  
determine whether a clearance should be granted, continued,  denied, or revoked.  
Specifically, the SOR  set forth security concerns arising under Guidelines  H  and J. (HE  
2) On March 20, 2025 , Applicant provided a response to the SOR and requested a  
hearing. (HE 3) On June 25, 2025, Department Counsel was ready to proceed.    
On July 3, 2025, the case was assigned to me. On July 10, 2025, the Defense 
Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a notice scheduling the hearing for August 
12, 2025. (HE 1) The hearing was held as scheduled. 
Department Counsel offered f ive exhibits; Applicant provide d one exhibit; there 
were no objections; and I admitted all proffered exhibits into evidence. (Transcript (Tr.) 
10, 40-42; GE 1-GE 5; Applicant Exhibit (AE) A) On August 21, 2025, DOHA received a 
transcript of the hearing. No exhibits were received after his hearing. (Tr. 73) 
Some details were excluded to protect Applicant’s right to privacy. Specific 
information is available in the cited exhibits and transcript. 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, 1.c, 
and 2.a. (HE 3) His admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Additional findings follow. 
Applicant is a 25-year-old systems engineer, and he has held this position since 
July 2024. (Tr. 7-8) In 2019, he graduated from high school. (Tr. 6) In 2024, he received 
a bachelor’s degree. (Tr. 7) He majored in computer engineering. (Tr. 7) He has not 
served in the military. (Tr. 7) He has never married, and he does not have any children. 
(Tr. 8) 
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  and Criminal Conduct  
SOR ¶ 1. a alleges Applicant used tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) with varying 
frequency from about March 2022 to about June 2024. SOR ¶ 1.b alleges he used THC 
with varying frequency from about March 2022 to about June 2022, while in a sensitive 
position, i.e., one requiring a security clearance. 
SOR ¶ 1.c alleges he used hallucinogenic mushrooms with varying frequency from 
about June 2023 to about February 2024. 
SOR ¶ 2.a cross alleges under Guideline J the conduct in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.c. 
In May of 2020, Applicant began working for a DOD contractor as an intern, and 
he received a security clearance in about June 2020. (Tr. 43, 50, 61) He was aware that 
marijuana possession and use were not permitted when he completed his May 14, 2020, 
SCA. (Tr. 61; GE 2) In August of 2020, he returned to college. (Tr. 43, 50 ) In August of 
2020, he went on part -time status as a DOD contractor employee, and he was working 
online from home. (Tr. 50-51) In 2021, he took a semester off from college, and he worked 
2 
 
 
  
  
 
   
   
   
   
  
 
    
  
     
     
   
     
 
   
    
 
 
   
  
 
 
    
   
  
       
       
 
 
     
 
 
   
   
   
  
   
     
 
    
    
   
   
 
full-time for the DOD contractor. (Tr. 44, 52) From December of 2021 into 2022, he worked 
part-time for the DOD contractor. (Tr. 44, 53) 
In March of 2022, Applicant used marijuana for the first time. (Tr. 54) For spring 
break in 2022, he went to a state where state law permitted marijuana purchase, 
possession, and use, and he purchased and used marijuana. (Tr. 55) In April of 2022, he 
was working part time at home, and he did not have access to classified information. (Tr. 
44) 
From January to June of 2022, Applicant used marijuana while he was a DOD 
contractor and while holding a security clearance. (Tr. 44- 46) He used marijuana 
sometimes every other week and sometimes two or three times a week. (Tr. 56, 63) From 
June of 2022 to May of 2024, he continued to use marijuana; however, the DOD employer 
did not employ him during this period. (Tr. 45) He was unsure when his security clearance 
became inactive. He was not debriefed. (Tr. 49) 
Applicant used hallucinogenic mushrooms twice. (Tr. 65 -66) In the summer of 
2023 and early winter of 2024 (around February of 2024) , he used hallucinogenic 
mushrooms. (Tr. 65-66) He knew it was illegal to use hallucinogenic mushrooms. (Tr. 62, 
66) 
Applicant stopped using marijuana around April or May of 2024 because he 
believed he would be drug tested for employment . (Tr. 63-64) In July of 2024, Applicant 
resumed his employment with the DOD contractor. (Tr. 53) He continues to associate 
with persons who used marijuana with him in college. (Tr. 59) They occasionally use 
marijuana in Applicant’s presence; however, they are aware that he is not permitted to 
use marijuana. (Tr. 59) He leaves the location where marijuana is being used. (Tr. 59) 
Federal law and state law in Applicant’s state of residence prohibit marijuana possession. 
(Tr. 60, 68) His DOD employer gave him a drug test in 2020 and 2024 when he began 
his employment. (Tr. 60) 
Applicant has never been arrested for a drug offense. (Tr. 69) He has never tested 
positive for an illegal substance. (Tr. 69) He concluded his SOR response with the 
following statement: 
I deeply regret the decisions I have made in my past that could have put 
our nation and its people in grave danger due to my actions. I understand 
the importance and gravity of the work I am currently . . . utilizing my security 
clearance and do wish to continue to be able to perform my duties. 
However, I recognize my actions have undermined my ability to hold such 
a position of trust and am fully ready to accept the consequences of those 
actions. Regardless of the outcome of this adjudication I will continue to 
adhere to the law and not use any form of illegal substances and if my 
security clearance is maintained I acknowledge that any future involvement 
or misuse of any illegal substances is grounds for revocation of national 
security eligibility. 
3 
 
 
 
  
   
  
    
   
 
 
  
 
   
     
   
    
   
 
     
     
 
 
  
  
   
    
 
   
 
  
 
  
   
  
   
   
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
Character Evidence  
Four witnesses spoke on Applicant’s behalf about his character . (Tr. 14 -37) The 
general sense of the statements of Applicant’s father, a friend who has known Applicant 
for about 15 years, a coworker, and a former supervisor is that Applicant is loyal, honest, 
reliable, responsible, and trustworthy. (Tr. 14 -37) He was courageous for disclosing his 
history of marijuana use. (Tr. 23) 
Policies  
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion of the Executive 
Branch in regulating access to information pertaining to national security emphasizing, 
“no one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 
518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to “ control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual 
is sufficiently trustworthy” to have access to such information. Id. at 527. The President 
has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants eligibility for 
access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly consistent with the 
national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation 
about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Clearance 
decisions must be “in terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a 
determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 § 7. 
Thus, this decision should not be construed to suggest that it is based, in whole or in part, 
on any express or implied determination about applicant’s allegiance, loyalty, or 
patriotism. It is merely an indication the applicant has not met the strict guidelines the 
President, Secretary of Defense, and Director of National Intelligence have established 
for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
4 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
    
 
   
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
     
 
 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 95 -0611 at 2 
(App. Bd. May 2, 1996). 
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial  
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶  E3.1.15. An applicant “has  the ultimate burden of  demonstrating that it  
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant  or continue his [or  her] security  
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01- 20700 at  3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). The burden of  
disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the Government.  See  ISCR Case No. 02-
31154 at  5 (App. Bd.  Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  Egan, 484 U.S. at 531;  see  AG  ¶ 2(b).   
Analysis  
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  and Criminal Conduct  
AG ¶ 24 provides the security concern arising from drug involvement and 
substance misuse stating: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises questions 
about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and 
regulations. Controlled substance means any “controlled substance” as 
defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in 
this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
AG ¶ 30 describes the security concern about criminal conduct: “Criminal activity 
creates doubt about a person’s judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness. By its very 
nature, it calls into question a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, r ules, 
and regulations.” 
AG ¶ 25 provides conditions that could raise a drug involvement and substance 
misuse security concern and may be disqualifying in this case: “(a) any substance misuse 
(see above definition)”; “(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance . . .”; and “(f) any 
illegal drug use while granted access to classified information or holding a s ensitive 
position.” 
AG ¶ 31 provides conditions that could raise a criminal conduct security concern 
and may be disqualifying in this case: 
5 
 
 
 
 
      
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
(a) a p
attern of  min or offenses, any  one of which on its own would be  
unlikely to affect a  national security eligibility decision, but which in  
combination cast doubt  on the i ndividual's judgment, reliability, or  
trustworthiness;  and  
(b) evidence (including, but not limited to, a credible allegation, an 
admis
sion, and m atters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of  
whether the individual  was  formally charged,  prosecuted, or convicted.  
AG ¶¶ 
25(a), 25(c), 25(f), 31(a), and 31(b) are established. Further discussion will 
be in the mitigation section, infra. AG ¶ 26 lists conditions that could mitigate drug 
involvement and substance misuse security concerns: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or happe ned  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur  or does not cast  doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good judgment;  
(b) the individual acknowledges  his or  her drug involvement and substance  
misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and  
has established a pattern of  abstinence, including, but not limited to:  
 (1) disassociation from drug-us in g associates and contacts;  
 (2) changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were used;  and  
 (3) providing a signed statement  of intent to abstain from all drug  
involvement  and substance misuse, acknowledging that any  future  
involvement or misuse is  grounds  for revocation of  national security  
eligibility;  
(c) abuse of prescription drugs was  after  a  severe or prolonged illness  
during which these drugs were prescribed, and abuse has since ended; and  
(d) satisfactory completion of a prescribed drug treatment program,  
incl
uding, but not limited to, rehabilitation and aftercare requirements,  
without recurrence of  abuse, and a favorable prognosis  by  a duly  qualified  
medical professional.  
AG ¶ 32 l
ists conditions that could mitigate criminal conduct security concerns: 
(a) so much time has  elapse d since the criminal behavior happened, or it  
happened under such unusual circumstances, that it is unlikely to recur and  
does not cast doubt on the individual ’s reliability, trustworthiness, or good  
judgment;  
(b) the individual was pressured or coerced into committing the act and  
those
 pressures are no longer present in the person’s life;  
6 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
   
   
 
 
    
 
 
 
  
 
    
 
  
   
  
 
  
  
 
(c) no reliable evidence to support that the individual committed the offense;  
and  
(d) there is evidence of successful rehabilitation; including, but not limited  
to, t
he passage of time without recurrence of criminal activity, restitution,  
compliance with the terms of parole or  probation, job training or higher  
education,  good employment record,  or constructive community  
involvement.  
In ISC
R Case No. 10- 04641 at 4 (App. Bd. Sept. 24, 2013), the DOHA Appeal 
Board concisely explained Applicant’s responsibility for proving the applicability of 
mitigating conditions as follows: 
Once a concern arises regarding an Applicant’s security clearance 
eligibility, there is a strong presumption against the grant or maintenance of 
a security clearance. See Dorfmont v. Brown, 913 F. 2d 1399, 1401 (9th 
Cir. 1990), cert. denied, 499 U.S. 905 (1991). After the Government 
presents evidence raising security concerns, the burden shifts to the 
applicant to rebut or mitigate those concerns. See Directive ¶ E3.1.15. The 
standard applicable in security clearance decisions is that articulated in 
Egan, supra. “Any doubt concerning personnel being considered for access 
to classified information will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Directive, Enclosure 2, [App. A] ¶ 2(b). 
Applicant admitted that  he p ossessed an d used marijuana  while  holding a security  
clearance. He also used  hallucinogenic mushrooms  and marijuana while not  employed by  
a DOD contractor. Marijuana and hallucinogenic mushrooms  are  listed on Schedule I, of 
the Controlled Substances Act.  See  21 U.S.C. § 812(c); Drug Enforcement Administration  
listing at  https://www.dea.gov/drug-information/drug-scheduling  (information link  on 
bot
tom of  web page ).  His  multiple  possessions of  marijuana  and  hallucinogenic  
mushrooms  are  federal crimes. Drugs  on the list as  Schedule I Controlled Substances , 
have “no  ‘currently  accepted medical use in treatment. ’  21 U.S.C. § 812(a)(1)(B).” ISCR 
Case No. 24- 01307  at 3 (App. Bd. July 17, 2025) .  He  possessed and/or  used 
hallucinogenic  mushrooms and marijuana  in violation of state law  and the rules of the  
DOD contractor.  
The Sec
EA promulgated clarifying guidance concerning marijuana-related issues 
in security clearance adjudications states as follows: 
[Federal] agencies are instructed that prior recreational marijuana use by 
an individual may be relevant to adjudications but not determinative. The 
SecEA has provided direction in [the adjudicative guidelines] to agencies 
that requires them to use a “whol e-person concept.” This requires 
adjudicators to carefully weigh a few variables in an individual’s life to 
determine whether that individual’s behavior raises a security concern, if at 
all, and whether that concern has been mitigated such that the individual 
may now receive a favorable adjudicative determination. Relevant 
7 
 
 
 
      
 
  
  
    
   
 
 
  
 
 
   
   
 
     
  
     
    
    
  
   
  
  
     
   
 
 
    
    
    
    
mitigations include, but are not limited to,  frequency  of  use and whether the  
individual can demonstrate that future use is  unlikely to recur, including by  
signing an attestation or other such appropriate mitigation. Additionally, in  
light of the long-standing federal law and policy prohibiting illegal drug use  
while occupying a sensitive position or  holding a security clearance,  
agencies are encouraged to advise prospective national security workforce  
employees that they should refrain from any future marijuana use upon  
initiation of the national security vetting process, which commences once  
the individual signs the certification contained  in the Standard Form 86 (SF-
86),  Questionnaire for National Security Positions.  
SecEA Guidance at 2 (quoted in ISCR Case No. 20-02974 at 3-4 (App. Bd. Feb. 1, 2022)). 
The DOHA Appeal Board cited the importance of consideration of “the changing 
landscape of marijuana law and . . . of the Director of National Intelligence’s Clarifying 
Guidance Concerning Marijuana. ” ISCR Case No. 23 -02402 at 4 (App. Bd. Feb. 19, 
2025). See also ISCR Case No. 24 -00914 at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 9, 2025) (noting the 
“evolving landscape of marijuana law and policy,” “the resulting increasing prevalence of 
marijuana use,” and in some instances “recreational marijuana use deserves less, or even 
no negative inference on judgment.”). 
The Appeal  Board has “never established a ‘bright line’ rule as to recency  of  drug  
use. The extent to which security concerns  may  have become attenuated through the  
passage of  time is a question that must be resolved based on the evidence as a whole.”  
See  ISCR Case No. 14-01847 at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 9,  2015).  See also  ISCR Case No.  24-
01307  at 5 (App. Bd.  July 17, 2025) (stating same).  
Several factors are important in the assessment of mitigation of possession and 
use of illegal drugs : the duration of abstinence; state law; company policy; use after 
completion of an SCA; use while holding a sensitive position; use while having access to 
classified information; types of other illegal drugs used, continued association with drug 
users; broken promises not to use in the future; and promises not to use in the future . 
See ISCR 24 -01001 (App. Bd. Apr. 22, 2025) (affirming denial of security clearance; 
factors: one year of abstinence from marijuana use; used marijuana after completion of 
an SCA; and used marijuana after promising not to use marijuana on SCA and during an 
OPM interview); ISCR Case No. 24 -01005 (App. Bd. Apr. 11, 2025) (denial of security 
clearance reversed; factors: two years of abstinence from marijuana use; no marijuana 
use while holding a security clearance or occupying sensitive position; marijuana 
possession and use w ere not illegal under state law; no marijuana use after notice that 
marijuana use was federally illegal ; and no evidence of broken promises not to use 
marijuana). 
From January to June of 2022, Applicant used marijuana while he was a DOD 
contractor, after he completed an SCA, and while holding a security clearance. He used 
marijuana sometimes every other week and sometimes two or three times a week. In the 
summer of 2023 and early winter of 2024 (around February of 2024), Applicant used 
hallucinogenic mushrooms. He stopped using marijuana for a time, and then he resumed 
8 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
  
  
    
     
     
 
  
 
      
   
 
   
 
 
  
   
     
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
     
  
 
      
     
      
  
 
    
 
marijuana use after leaving his DOD employment. He stopped using marijuana around 
April or May of 2024 because he believed he would be drug tested for employment. He 
did not stop using marijuana because he was violating state and federal laws prohibiting 
possession of marijuana. 
“The [DOHA Appeal] Board has ‘long held that applicants who use marijuana [or 
other illegal drugs] after having been placed on notice of the security significance of such 
conduct may be lacking in the judgment and reliability expected of those with access to 
classified information.’” ISCR Case No. 24-01001 (App. Bd. Apr. 22, 2025) (quoting ISCR 
Case No. 20-01772 at 3 (App. Bd. Sept. 14, 2021)). See also ISCR Case No. 24- 00468 
at 6 n.7 (App. Bd. Apr. 16, 2025). Applicant conceded that he was aware of the security-
related prohibition against marijuana possession and use when he was using the 
substance from January to June of 2022. 
In ISCR Case No. 22-02623 at 4 (App. Bd. Jan. 24, 2024), the DOHA Appeal Board 
discussed the term of “holding a sensitive position” as follows: 
For purposes of national security eligibility determinations, the Directive 
defines “sensitive position” as: 
Any position within or in support of an agency in which the 
occupant could bring about, by virtue of the nature of the 
position, a material adverse effect on the national security 
regardless of whether the occupant has access to classified 
information, and regardless of whether the occupant is a n 
employee, military service member, or contractor. 
SEAD 4, ¶ D.8. We have previously held that this broad language is 
“designed to be inclusive and encompass a wide range of positions, 
including those that require eligibility for access to classified information 
(i.e., a security clearance).” ISCR Case No. 22-01661 at 4 (App. Bd. Sep. 
21, 2023). The term “sensitive position” is not so broad, however, to 
encompass any and all employment with a defense contractor. 
Applicant held a sensitive position, which required a security clearance, as 
discussed, supra, when he possessed, and used marijuana from January to June of 2022. 
and AG ¶ 25(f) adds a significant security element to this drug- involvement security 
assessment. 
Applicant provided some important mitigating information. He disclos ed his 
involvement with marijuana and hallucinogenic mushrooms during the security clearance 
process. His possession and use of marijuana and hallucinogenic mushrooms were not 
discovered through a polygraph test, law enforcement investigation, or a urinalysis test. 
His most recent involvement with these two illegal drugs did not occur while he was 
employed by a DOD contractor. He has limited his association with known marijuana 
users. His m arijuana involvement did not include selling marijuana, and he does not 
9 
 
 
 
  
   
   
       
     
    
    
   
 
   
  
 
    
 
   
    
  
 
   
       
    
   
     
   
    
    
    
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
currently possess illegal drugs. He promised not to use illegal drugs in the future, and he 
provided a statement of his intention. 
AG ¶¶ 26(a) and 26(b) do not fully apply to SOR ¶ 1.a because Applicant has not 
established a sufficient period of abstinence from marijuana purchase, possession, and 
use. H is decisions to purchase, possess , and use illegal drugs, while occupying a 
sensitive position, after completion of his SCA in 2020, and while having access to 
classified information may indicate he lacks the qualities expected of those with access 
to national secrets. 
Applicant provided a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug involvement 
and substance misuse, promising to avoid associations with known drug users and 
environments where illegal drugs are used, and acknowledging that any future 
involvement or misuse of drugs is grounds for automatic revocation of national security 
eligibility. Thus, he satisfied the requirements of AG ¶ 26(b)(3), except he has not 
established a sufficient pattern of abstinence of marijuana and hallucinogenic mushrooms 
possession and use under all the circumstances. See ISCR Case No. 24-01307 at 5 (App. 
Bd. July 17, 2025). 
The time between Applicant’s most recent involvement with marijuana and his 
hearing was about 14 months (May or June 2024 to August 2025). This period might be 
sufficient to establish a pattern of abstinence under some circumstance; however, he 
used marijuana previously while having access to classified information. He also used 
hallucinogenic mushrooms around February of 2024. Possession of those substances is 
prohibited under state law. His relatively recent involvement with marijuana while having 
access to classified information and his use of hallucinogenic mushrooms around 
February of 2024 continue to cast doubt on his current reliability, trustworthiness, and 
judgment. None of the mitigating conditions fully apply. Guidelines H and J security 
concerns are not mitigated at this time. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all the circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
10 
 
 
    
 
   
 
   
 
  
    
     
   
 
 
    
  
 
  
 
  
      
   
    
 
  
    
     
    
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
 
 
  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), “[t]he ultimate determination” of whether to grant a security 
clearance “must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration” 
of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. My comments under Guidelines H and J 
are incorporated in my whole- person analysis. Some of the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) were 
addressed under that guideline but some warrant additional comment. 
Applicant is a 25- year-old systems engineer. In 2024, he received a bachelor’s 
degree with a major in computer engineering. The general sense of the statements of 
Applicant’s character witnesses is that Applicant is loyal, honest, reliable, responsible, and 
trustworthy. The character evidence supports reinstatement of his security clearance. 
The disqualifying and mitigating information is discussed in the drug involvement 
and substance misuse and criminal conduct sections, supra. The reasons for denial of 
Applicant’s security clearance are more persuasive at this time. 
It is well settled that once a concern arises regarding an applicant’s security 
clearance eligibility, there is a strong presumption against granting a security clearance. 
See Dorfmont, 913 F. 2d at 1401. “[A] favorable clearance decision means that the record 
discloses no basis for doubt about an applicant’s eligibility for access to classified 
information.” ISCR Case No. 18-02085 at 7 (App. Bd. Jan. 3, 2020) (citing ISCR Case 
No. 12-00270 at 3 (App. Bd. Jan. 17, 2014)). 
I have carefully applied the law, as set forth in Egan, Exec. Or. 10865, the Directive, 
the AGs, and the Appeal Board’s jurisprudence, to the facts and circumstances in the 
context of the whole person. Drug involvement and substance misuse and criminal 
conduct security concerns are not mitigated. 
This decision should not be construed as a determination that Applicant cannot or 
will not attain the state of true reform and rehabilitation necessary to be eligible for a 
security clearance. The determination of an individual’s eligibility and suitabilit y for a 
security clearance is not a once in a lifetime occurrence, but is based on applying the 
factors, both disqualifying and mitigating, to the evidence presented. Under his current 
circumstances, a clearance is not warranted. In the future, he may well demonstrate 
persuasive evidence of his security worthiness. 
11 
 
 
 
    
   
  
  
  
 
 
   
 
    
 
       
 
    
 
 
  
 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, G
 uideline H:   AGAINST  APPLI CANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a, 1.b. and 1.c:  Against  Applicant  
Paragraph 2, Guideline J:  AGAINST APPLICANT  
Subparagraph 2.a:  Against Applicant  
Conclusion  
Consi
dering all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant Applicant eligibility for 
access to classified information. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Mark W. Harvey 
Administrative Judge 
12 