 
 
 
                                                              
                         
          
           
             
 
 
    
  
       
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
       
   
 
 
          
        
            
       
           
         
               
      
      
            
        
     
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00341 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Cynthia Ruckno, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
02/10/2025 
Decision 
DORSEY, Benjamin R., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not mitigate the foreign influence security concerns presented by 
his contacts with Russia. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
On April 1, 20 24, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline B, foreign 
influence. Applicant responded to the SOR on April 17, 2024 (Answer) and requested a 
hearing before an administrative judge with the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals 
(DOHA). The case was assigned to me on December 5, 2024. Prior to the scheduling of 
the hearing, Applicant requested that his hearing be conducted in-person in State A as 
opposed to a virtual hearing. Noting the cost and time saving benefits , and that a video 
teleconference over the Microsoft Teams network is approved by DOHA for due 
process purposes, I denied his request. After consulting the parties concerning a 
hearing date, I scheduled the hearing for January 16, 2025. The hearing was convened 
as scheduled via the Microsoft Teams video teleconference platform . I received a 
transcript (Tr.) of the hearing on January 23, 2025. 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
       
       
          
      
              
         
            
       
   
 
  
      
       
    
         
      
               
             
          
  
 
         
          
         
        
         
         
       
        
 
 
        
     
          
  
        
      
 
      
        
      
      
       
  
Evidence 
I admitted Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 3 in evidence without objection. 
Applicant testified and submitted Applicant Exhibits (AE) A through G, which I admitted 
as evidence without objection . I marked as Hearing Exhibit (HE ) I, the Government’s 
request that I take administrative notice of certain information about the Russian 
Federation (Russia) that was attached to its request. I marked as HE II, the May 28, 
2024 letter from the Government to Applicant disclosing its proposed evidence. At 
Applicant’s request and without objection, I left the record open for the parties to provide 
post-hearing documentation. Applicant timely provided AE H through J, which I admitted 
without objection. The record closed on January 23, 2025. 
Administrative Notice  
HE I is Government’s motion that I take administrative notice of certain facts 
about the country conditions in Russia, as well as its relationship with the United States 
as of May 28, 2024, as referenced in official U.S. Government documents. 
Administrative or official notice is the appropriate type of notice used for administrative 
proceedings. See ISCR Case No. 16-02522 at 2-3 (App. Bd. July 12, 2017); ISCR Case 
No. 05-11292 at 4 n. 1 (App. Bd. Apr. 12, 2007); ISCR Case No. 02 -24875 at 2 (App. 
Bd. Oct. 12, 2006) (citing ISCR Case No. 02 -18668 at 3 (App. Bd. Feb. 10, 2004) and 
McLeod v. Immigration and Naturalization Service, 802 F.2d 89, 93 n. 4 (3d Cir. 1986)). 
Without objection, I take administrative notice of the facts contained therein. 
The facts are summarized in the written request , so I will not repeat them 
verbatim in this decision. I will provide a brief overview, as follows. The Office of the 
Director of National Intelligence reported that Russia presents one of the most serious 
foreign influence threats to the United States, using its intelligence services, proxies, 
and wide -ranging influence tools to try to divide Western alliances, and increase its 
sway around the world, while attempting to undermine U.S. global standing, amplify 
discord inside the United States, and influence U.S. voters and decision -making. Russia 
aggressively uses its intelligence services to coll ect sensitive U.S. information to further 
these goals. 
While its government professes to be a federal republic, in reality, i t has an 
authoritarian form of government largely controlled by Vladimir Putin. Its government 
commits serious and varied human rights abuses against its own citizens , including 
enforced disappearances, arbitrary or unlawful killings, punishment of family members 
for alleged offense by a relative, and serious restrictions on freedom of expression. 
Russia has also been victimized by terrorism. 
In February 2022, Russia launched a full -scale, unprovoked invasion of Ukraine. 
This invasion has become the largest conventional military attack on a sovereign state 
in Europe since World War II. While Russia’s act of aggression has received 
international condemnation, and many countries , including the United States, have 
imposed sanctions on it, as of the date of this writing, it persists with its unlawful 
invasion. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
        
           
         
          
      
           
      
 
 
       
         
    
           
             
      
            
          
        
Russian  security services have  arrested  U.S. citizens  on  spurious charges,  
denied  them  fair  and  transparent treatment,  and  have  convicted  them  in secret trials  
without  presenting  evidence. Russian  officials may  unreasonably  delay U.S. consular  
assistance  to  detained  U.S. citizens. Russian  authorities arbitrarily enforce local laws 
against U.S. citizen  religious workers and  open  questionable criminal investigations  
against such  individuals. Russian  security services are increasingly  arbitrarily enforcing  
local laws targeting  foreign  and  international organizations they consider “undesirable,”   
and  U.S. citizens should avoid travel to  Russia to  perform  work for or volunteer with  
non-governmental organizations.  Russia  may refuse  to  acknowledge  dual nationals'  
U.S. citizenship, deny their  access to  U.S. consular assistance, prevent their  departure  
from Russia, and conscript dual nationals for military service. (HE I; AE  G)  
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 62-year-old U.S. citizen who co -owns a government contractor 
(Firm A) for which he has worked since 2007 . He earned a bachelor’s degree in 1990. 
He was married in 1989 and divorced in 2014. He remains unmarried, but since about 
April or May 2021, he has cohabitated with a dual citizen of Russia and the United 
States (SOR ¶ 1.a). I will hereinafter refer to Applicant’s cohabitant as “Ms. B.” Applicant 
has three adult children who are U.S. citizens and residents . He has held a security 
clearance since 1991. (Tr. 50, 75-77; Answer; GE 1-3; AE A, B, D, E, F) 
Ms. B was born in Russia and resided there until about  2010, when she moved to  
the  United  States  to  find  a  better life. She  has been  a  U.S. resident since  2010  and  
became  a  naturalized  U.S. citizen  in  2018.  Ms. B’s mother and  brother are  citizens and  
residents  of  Russia  (SOR ¶  1.c).  Her mother  is about 84  years old.  Ms. B  holds  a  valid  
U.S. passport  that she  obtained  in January 2019. She  also holds a  valid  Russian  
passport (SOR ¶  1.b).  Her Russian  passport does not expire  until 2028. Applicant does  
not know whether she  plans to  renew it.  She  has used  her Russian  passport to  travel to  
Russia  in  2015,  2021, and  2022  to  visit her mother and  brother.  Each  of  these  visits to  
Russia  lasted  approximately  three  weeks.  She  has an  ownership  interest  in  two  
apartments in  Russia  that she  purchased  before becoming  a  U.S. citizen.  One  
apartment,  in which  her mother resides,  is valued  at  about $40,000  (SOR ¶  1.d). The  
other apartment is one  she  co-owns  with  her son  that is valued  at about  $110,000  (SOR  
¶  1.e).  Her son  is a  Russian  citizen  residing  in Thailand.  (Tr.  37, 43-45,  55-67,  74-75, 
77-81,  84-87, 101; Answer; GE 2, 3; AE  A, B, D, E, F)  
Ms. B is close with her mother. She speaks to her mother at least every other 
day. Her mother receives a pension from the Russian government , and Ms. B has sent 
her money over the years, but not after the U.S. imposed sanctions against Russia. 
Prior to Ms. B meeting Applicant, her mother visited her in the United States on two 
occasions. Ms. B’s mother has been retired for over 25 years. She was an executive 
assistant. Applicant does not believe that she worked for the Russian government, but 
he is not sure. Applicant has met Ms. B’s mother once when the three met in Italy. 
There is a language barrier, so their conversations were limited. He reported this foreign 
travel and his foreign contact with Ms. B’s mother to his facility security officer (FSO) 
3 
 
 
 
          
 
 
         
         
        
        
            
     
        
        
    
 
         
      
         
            
         
         
            
       
          
           
          
    
     
  
 
         
              
         
      
          
              
           
       
         
    
         
    
 
         
          
          
           
          
           
and the FSO for whom his company subcontracts. (Tr. 55-67, 79, 81 -84, 86, 96; 
Answer; GE 2, 3; AE D) 
Applicant has never met Ms. B’s brother in person, but he waved to him over a 
video call. He has never met Ms. B’s son, but Ms. B has traveled to Thailand twice to 
visit him in the last four years , using her U.S. passport. Applicant does not believe that 
Ms. B’s son has any plans to move back to Russia, and he has a disability that prevents 
him from being conscripted in the Russian Army. Ms. B consistently uses her U.S. 
passport for international travel unless she is visiting her family in Russia. She has not 
visited her family in Russia since Russia invaded Ukraine in February 2022 . She does 
not plan to visit Russia again until the war ends, but she may go back if her mother’s 
health fails. (Tr. 55-67, 79, 81-84, 86, 96, 101-102; Answer; GE 2, 3; AE D) 
When Ms. B moved to the United States, her brother did not speak to her for 
three years. Applicant believes that her brother was angry with Ms. B because he would 
have to take care of their mother in her declining years. He also believes that her 
brother may have been angry because he disapproves of the United States. Ms. B’s 
brother is a sporting goods salesman that is not affiliated with the Russian government. 
Applicant believes that he owns his apartment in Russia, but that he does not receive a 
pension from the Russian government. He served two year s of compulsory Russian 
military service about 30 years ago. Applicant does not believe that Ms. B’s brother is 
subject to conscription because he is about 50 years old. Applicant testified that Ms. B 
and her brother have reconciled, and she speaks to him over a video call approximately 
two to five times per year. Her brother has a wife and two daughters who are also 
Russian citizens and residents. Applicant does not believe that any of Ms. B’s family 
members know that he works for a government contractor . (Tr. 55-56, 84-87, 102-104; 
Answer; GE 2, 3; AE D) 
Applicant first met Ms. B in November 2020. It is unclear from the record when 
he realized that Ms. B is a Russian citizen, but he became aware that she held a valid 
Russian passport in about June 2021, around one of the times Ms. B visited her mother 
in Russia. Beginning in about June or July 2021, h e voluntarily divulged to his FSO 
information about Ms. B’s ties to both Russia and the United States. He averred that 
Ms. B has been open and honest with him when he requested information that he was 
required to report. He has been forthcoming with his employer and with the U.S. 
Government regarding his relationship with Ms. B , her Russian family members, and 
her ties to Russia. Applicant has told Ms. B that i f anything should come up that 
threatens the safety or wellbeing of her family members in Russia, he cannot do 
anything to help them, but he would go straight to the FBI. (Tr. 55-67, 74-75, 77-81, 83, 
87; Answer; GE 2, 3; AE B-D, F) 
Applicant testified that he has not spoken to Ms. B about selling her Russian 
apartments because it is not his place to do so. However, he opined that Ms. B does not 
want to sell her apartments in Russia for several reasons. One reason is that it would 
deprive her mother of a place to live. Another reason is that she co -owns the other 
apartment with her son, so she could not sell it without his agreement. A third reason is 
that Ms. B gave one of her ex -husbands, a Russian citizen who resides in Russia, a 
4 
 
 
 
     
         
        
     
            
   
 
         
             
          
       
          
    
 
       
        
        
         
          
          
        
          
       
              
       
       
 
      
          
       
            
        
         
    
   
 
          
          
        
          
           
         
          
         
           
      
 
power of attorney (POA) that gave him complete control over her financial affairs in 
Russia, including her two apartments. The document evidencing the POA is not in 
evidence, but Applicant testified that she executed the POA in mid -2024. He has not 
seen the POA and does not know whether it is revocable or irrevocable. Finally, he 
opined that Ms. B could not sell the apartments because she does not have a Russian 
bank account. (Tr. 61-63, 80, 87-88, 90-94; GE 2, 3; AE B, F) 
Ms. B is currently employed by Firm A . She makes a little under $40,000 per 
year. She does not own any real property in the United States, but she does own a car 
here. She has a bank account in the United States and U.S.-based individual retirement 
accounts (IRA) worth approximately $100,000. She is not a member of any civic 
organizations in Russia or the United States. She voted in the United States in the last 
election. (Tr. 94-97, 104; AE C, J) 
Applicant is a U.S. citizen by birth and has lived in the U.S. his entire life. He 
owns four pieces of real property in the U.S. tha t he testified have a gross value of just 
over $1,000,000. He is in the process of selling two of those properties that he testified 
have a gross value of about $600,000. He also has a one -half inheritance interest (with 
his brother) in a lien -free family farm that he valued at between $2,500,000 and 
$3,000,000. He and his brother will be selling that farm soon and will split the proceeds. 
He has a U.S. -based IRA worth approximately $1,900,000. He holds no foreign assets . 
He is planning to retire sometime in early 2025. He maintains that he does not have a 
conflict of interest because of his relationship with Ms. B . I n the event he does, he 
claims he would resolve it in favor of the United States. He testified that he and Ms. B 
are both aware that travel to Russia for U.S. citizens is dangerous. He would not travel 
to Russia. (Tr. 58-60, 97-101; Answer; GE 1-3; AE D, J, F, G) 
Two of Applicant’s longtime personal and professional acquaintances testified 
during his case in chief. One of these individuals is the co-owner and FSO for Firm A. 
This individual filed the incident report with the Defense Information Security Service 
(DISS) that resulted in the filing of the SOR. The other witness is an employee of the 
government contractor (Firm B) that subcontracts Firm A. They have known Applicant 
both before and after he met Ms. B. They have not reviewed the SOR but are generally 
aware of the Government’s security concerns related to his girlfriend’s dual citizenship , 
her Russian family, and her valid Russian passport. (Tr. 31-45; GE 3; AE C) 
Applicant’s FSO testified that he was not aware that Ms. B owned property in 
Russia but does not know what the bearing of the information is. Both witnesses stated 
that they have no reason to question Applicant’s or his girlfriend’s conduct, intent, 
loyalty, or patriotism. They say they have noticed no behavioral changes in him since he 
met his girlfriend. To their knowledge, he has been open and honest about his 
relationship with his girlfriend, and he has followed all reporting requirements attendant 
to cohabitating with someone who holds dual citizenship. They testified that he only has 
access to classified information when he is at his worksite, and he is supervised in that 
event. In 2021, Firm B submitted a compelling needs statement on Applicant’s behalf. 
The witness from Firm B testified that need persists. (Tr. 31-45; AE C) 
5 
 
 
 
      
       
      
       
             
       
        
    
        
   
 
 
    
      
       
      
 
 
     
        
       
         
   
 
          
    
       
        
          
     
     
 
 
      
    
    
 
        
       
       
     
     
 
           
          
     
Applicant also provided four character-reference letters from current and former 
colleagues and friends , including Firm A’s co-owner and FSO , who also testified . They 
wrote about Applicant’s loyalty, integrity, and trustworthiness. They also wrote that they 
believe he is fully capable of handling and protecting classified information, as they 
have witnessed him do so in the past. Some noted that he voluntarily complied with 
reporting requirements regarding his dual-citizen girlfriend. Some wrote that it would 
cause hardship to the interests of the United States if Applicant lost his security 
clearance. They opined that he should maintain his security clearance. His employer’s 
FSO wrote that this process is a waste of resources, claiming that Applicant will be 
retiring in about six months. (Tr. 41-42, 56; AE C) 
Policies  
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines (AG ), which became 
effective on June 8, 2017. 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and common sense decision. According 
to AG ¶ 2(c), the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number o f variables 
known as the “whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all 
available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, 
or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel .” The 
applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The 
6 
 
 
 
             
     
       
         
     
 
 
          
               
       
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
     
 
 
 
       
     
  
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation of potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline B, Foreign Influence  
The security concern for foreign influence is set out in AG ¶ 6: 
Foreign  contacts and  interests,  including, but not limited  to,  business,
financial,  and  property interests, are  a  national security concern  if they
result in divided  allegiance.  They  may also  be  a  national security concern
if they create  circumstances in which  the  individual may  be manipulated or
induced  to  help a  foreign  person, group, organization, or government in a
way  inconsistent with  U.S. interests or otherwise made  vulnerable to
pressure or coercion  by any  foreign  interest. Assessment  of foreign
contacts and  interests  should consider the  country  in  which  the  foreign
contact or interest  is located, including, but not limited  to, considerations
such  as whether it is known to  target U.S.  citizens to  obtain classified  or
sensitive information or is  associated with  a risk of terrorism.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 7. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) contact,  rega rdless  of method, with  a  foreign  family member, business  
or professional  associate, friend, or other person  who  is a  citizen  of or  
resident  in  a  foreign  country  if that  contact creates  a  heightened  risk of  
foreign  exploitation, inducement,  manipulation, pressure, or coercion;   
(b) connections to  a  foreig n  person, group,  government,  or country that  
create  a  potential conflict of interest  between  the  individual's obligation  to  
protect  classified  or  sensitive  information  or technology and  the  
individual’s desire  to  help a  foreign  person, group, or country by providing  
that information or technology;  
(e) shared living quarters with a person or persons, regardless of 
citizenship status, if that relationship creates a heightened risk of foreign 
inducement, manipulation, pressure, or coercion; and 
7 
 
 
 
 
    
        
 
 
         
      
     
        
        
        
  
 
       
      
         
      
        
        
 
 
      
             
      
      
  
       
       
         
      
 
         
        
     
         
      
       
         
  
  
        
     
       
         
           
        
 
(f) substantial business, financial, or property interests in a foreign country, 
or in any foreign owned or foreign -operated business that could subject 
the individual to a heightened risk of foreign influence or exploitation or 
personal conflict of interest. 
The nature of a nation's government, its relationship with the United States, and 
its human-rights record are relevant in assessing the likelihood that an applicant's family 
members are vulnerable to government coercion or inducement. The risk of coercion, 
persuasion, or duress is significantly greater if the foreign country has an authoritarian 
government, a family member or friend is associated with or dependent upon the 
government, the country is known to conduct intelligence collection operations against 
the United States, or the foreign country is associated with a risk of terrorism. 
A heightened security risk is established by the administratively noticed facts 
about Russia in the record. These include Russia's ongoing, persistent, pervasive 
attempts to target the United States, seeking to collect intelligence, erode democracy, 
undermine U.S. national policies and foreign relationships, and increase Russia's global 
position and influence. A heightened risk is also established due to Russia's 
mistreatment and harassment of U.S. citizens and its own citizens, as well as its human 
rights issues. 
Applicant's long-term romantic relationship and cohabitation with Ms. B, who is a 
dual citizen of Russia and the United States and holds a valid Russian passport , create 
“a heightened risk of foreign exploitation, inducement, manipulation, pressure, or 
coercion” and “a potential conflict of interest between [his] obligation to protect classified 
or sensitive information or technology and [his] desire to help a foreign person, group, or 
country by providing that information or technology.” AG ¶¶ 7(a) , 7(b), and 7( e) are 
established. AG ¶¶ 7(a) , 7(b), and 7(e) are also established by Applicant’s close and 
continuing relationship with Ms. B and Ms. B’s bonds of affection with her mother and 
brother, who are citizens and residents of Russia. 
To put it another way, Applicant's contacts with Russian nationals in both the 
United States and Russia, create a potential conflict of interest because Russian 
officials with knowledge of Applicant's contacts in those countries could place pressure 
on him , directly or indirectly in an effort to cause him to compromise sensitive 
information. Those relationships create “a heightened risk of foreign inducement, 
manipulation, pressure, or coercion” under AG ¶ 7. Applicant’s close and continuing 
relationship with Ms. B and her ownership of Russian real property also establishes AG 
¶ 7(f). 
When an allegation under a disqualifying condition is established, “the Directive 
presumes there is a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct or 
circumstances ... and an applicant's security eligibility. Direct or objective evidence of 
nexus is not required.” ISCR Case No. 17-00507 at 2 (App. Bd. June 13, 2018) (citing 
ISCR Case No. 15 -08385 at 4 (App. Bd. May 23, 2018)). Once disqualifying conditions 
are established, the burden then shifts to Applicant prove that he has mitigated the 
security concerns. 
8 
 
 
 
 
       
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
       
   
 
       
           
          
        
     
         
       
         
      
         
            
         
   
       
     
 
AG ¶ 8 lists conditions that could mitigate foreign influence security concerns 
including the following that are potentially applicable: 
(a) the  nature  of the  relationships with  foreign  persons, the  country in  
which  these  persons are located,  or the  positions or activities of those  
persons in that country are such  that it is unlikely the  individual will  be  
placed  in a  position  of having  to  choose  between  the  interests of a  foreign  
individual, group, organization, or government and  the  interests  of the  
United States;  
(b) there  is no  conflict of interest,  either  because  the  individual's  sense  of  
loyalty or obligation  to  the  foreign  person,  or allegiance  to  the  group,  
government,  or country is so  minimal, or the  individual has such  deep  and  
longstanding  relationships and  loyalties in the  United  States, that the  
individual can  be  expected  to  resolve any conflict of interest in favor of the  
U.S. interest;  
(c)  contact or communication  with  foreign  citizens is so  casual and  
infrequent that there is  little likelihood  that it could create  a  risk for foreign  
influence or exploitation;  
(e) the individual has promptly complied with existing agency requirements  
regarding  the  reporting  of contacts,  requests,  or threats  from  persons,  
groups, or organizations from  a foreign country; and  
(f) the value or routine nature of the foreign business, financial, or property 
interests is such that they are unlikely to result in a conflict and could not 
be used effectively to influence, manipulate, or pressure the individual. 
Applicant has a close and longstanding romantic relationship with Ms. B. While 
she is a U.S. citizen and resides in the United States, she holds a Russian passport, 
and has traveled to Russia in the past. She allegedly does not intend to travel to Russia 
in the future, but the record evidence is equivocal on this point , especially if her elderly 
mother falls ill . Applicant has little contact with Ms. B’s Russian family members who 
reside in Russia, but that relationship must be viewed through a lens that reflects an 
individual’s natural ties to the immediate family of their longstanding romantic partner. I 
consider these factors against the backdrop of the nature of the Russian government. 
The Russian government does not respect the fundamental rights of its own citizens, 
much less the rights of the citizens of the United States. Russia has made consistent 
and pervasive efforts to harm U.S. interests through espionage and other unseemly 
means. Given these considerations, I do not find that Applicant has met his burden of 
showing that it is unlikely he will be placed in a position of having to choose between the 
interests of a foreign individual, group, organization, or government and the interests of 
the United States. AG ¶ 8(a) does not apply. 
9 
 
 
 
        
        
     
           
          
  
 
           
         
     
         
 
 
     
     
          
          
      
   
 
         
         
        
          
             
  
 
 
 
 
 
       
       
         
      
AG ¶ 8(b) is partially applicable. Applicant has deep and longstanding ties to the 
United States. H e was born in the United States and has lived here his entire life. His 
children, his friends, and his assets are here. He has worked for U.S. -based defense 
contractors for over 30 years. However, given the close an d longstanding nature of his 
relationship with Ms. B, and considering her ties to a repressive country and 
government, a conflict of interest persists. 
AG ¶ 8(c) does not apply. The contact Applicant maintains with a Russian citizen 
is not infrequent or casual and could create a risk for foreign influence or exploitation. 
This sentiment is especially true because Applicant’s long-term partner has close family 
members who live in a country that would not hesitate to leverage those relationships to 
gain sensitive U.S. information. 
AG ¶ 8(e) is applicable, but its applicability is not dispositive of overall mitigation. 
Record evidence shows that Applicant has promptly reported his Russian contacts. 
While this action provides evidence that he is being open and honest about his Russian 
contacts, it does not remove the underlying heightened risk of foreign exploitation, 
inducement, manipulation, pressure, or coercion . These disclosures also do not 
eliminate his potential conflict of interest. 
AG ¶ 8( f) is applicable to the two apartments in Russia the Government alleged 
in SOR ¶¶ 1.d and 1.e. The value of these apartments , while significant, pales in 
comparison to the wealth that Applicant has accumulated in the United States. 
Moreover, Ms. B appears to have divested her control of those properties to some 
degree, and Applicant has no ownership interest in them. I find that these apartments 
could not be used to influence, manipulate, or pressure Applicant. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the  whole-person  concept,  the  administrative judge  must  evaluate  an  
applicant’s eligibility for a  security clearance  by considering  the  totality of the  applicant’s  
conduct and  all  relevant circumstances.  The  administrative  judge  should  consider the  
nine  adjudicative  process factors listed at AG  ¶ 2(d):  
(1) The  nature, extent,  and  seriousness of the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of  
rehabilitation  and  other permanent  behavioral changes;  (7) the  motivation  
for the  conduct;  (8) the  potential  for pressure, coercion,  exploitation, or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood  of continuation  or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelin es and the whole -person concept. I have incorporated my 
comments under Guideline B in my whole -person analysis. I have considered 
10 
 
 
 
       
       
     
          
             
      
          
  
 
 
      
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
Applicant’s positive character evidence and his longstanding ties to the United States. 
However, given that Applicant’s long-term romantic partner is a Russian citizen with 
significant familial ties there , and noting the repressive nature of the Russian 
Government, combined with its desire and capability to harm U.S. interests, I find his 
relationship with Ms. B presents an unmitigated conflict of intere st and security risk. The 
record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts about Applicant’s eligibility and 
suitability for a security clearance. I conclude Applicant did no t mitigate the foreign 
influence security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline B:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a-1.c:  Against Applicant 
Subparagraphs 1.d-1.e:  For Applicant 
Conclusion 
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for 
a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Benjamin R. Dorsey 
Administrative Judge 
11 