 
 
                                                              
                        DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
      DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS     
           
             
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
    
    
 
 
  
  
  
    
   
    
______________ 
______________ 
In the matter of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR Case No.  24-01560  
 )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance  )  
A
ppearances  
For Government: John G. Hannink, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
07/11/2025 
Decision  
LAFAYE, Gatha, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to provide sufficient evidence to mitigate security concerns raised 
under Guidelines H (drug involvement and substance misuse) and E (personal conduct). 
Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on November 1, 2023. 
On September 20, 2024 , the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) alleging security concerns under Guidelines H and E. The DOD acted 
under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry 
(February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel 
Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the 
adjudicative guidelines (AG) effective within the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR on October 7, 2024, and elected to have his case 
decided on the written record in lieu of a hearing. Department Counsel submitted the 
Government’s written case on January 12, 2025, including documents marked as 
Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through GE 6. A complete copy of the file of relevant material 
(FORM) was sent to Applicant, who was given an opportunity to file objections and submit 
material to refute, extenuate, or mitigate the Government’s evidence. He received the 
 
 
 
 
 
     
    
       
 
 
         
     
    
 
       
        
      
         
  
 
        
     
     
       
        
       
  
  
 
     
  
    
       
 
   
  
       
  
 
 
    
  
 
   
   
 
     
  
      
       
FORM on January 30, 2025, and did not submit a response. The case was assigned to 
me on June 6, 2025. GE 1 and GE 2 are already part of the administrative record and 
need not be admitted. GE 3 through GE 6 are admitted in evidence without objection. 
Findings of Fact  
In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted all allegations (SOR ¶¶ 1.a – 1.d, 
and 2.a). His admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact. After thorough review of 
the evidence, I make the following additional finding of facts. 
Applicant is 2 9 years old. He earned his high school diploma in June 2014. He 
enrolled in the United States Naval Academy in July 2014 and was honorably discharged 
as an enlisted Sailor a month later. He attended college from January 2015 through May 
2019 and earned his bachelor’s degree in engineering in May 2019. He has never married 
and has no children. (GE 3, 4) 
Applicant has worked as a structural engineer for a defense contractor since 
September 2019. His position requires a security clearance. He completed his first SCA 
in October 2019, and i n Section 23 of the SCA , he admitted using and purchasing 
marijuana from January 2016 through September 2018. He said he legally purchased 
marijuana from a store in Amsterdam in 2016 and used it about three times during his 
visit. He also said he legally purchased marijuana from a dispensary in State 1 (S1), 
where it was legal to do so. S1 allowed the recreational use of marijuana, and Applicant 
used it a few times during his visit. 
Applicant is aware that marijuana remains illegal under federal law. He said, “I 
wanted to try marijuana in a legal environment. Both times I was on vacation and trying 
to enjoy myself. However, I consider drugs to be juvenile behavior at this point in my life.” 
(GE 4) He continued to comment on his marijuana involvement: 
Even though I now reside in a state where marijuana is legal, I have not 
purchased any more, nor do I intend to . While I honestly believe the 
occasional use would not have ill effects on my judgment or career, I also 
believe it is unnecessary for me to relax or enjoy myself. I worked hard to 
start a career in this industry, and I’m more than happy to relinquish any 
behaviors that could harm my ability to continue to progress and grow. I 
have every intention of taking all necessary steps to ensure I am granted, 
and maintain, clearance from the government. (Id.) 
Applicant signed a nondisclosure agreement (NDA) in November 2019 and was 
granted a secret security clearance in January 2020. (GE 5) 
In November 2023, Applicant completed his second SC A. He disclosed using 
marijuana from January 2016 through September 2021. His comments regarding his 
future intent to use marijuana were the same as those in his 2019 SCA . He answered 
“no” to the question of whether he EVER illegally used or had otherwise been illegally 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
  
    
    
     
     
 
    
        
   
     
    
 
     
   
   
    
 
    
   
  
    
   
  
  
 
 
      
  
  
    
    
  
      
 
 
   
   
  
  
   
    
  
involved with a drug or controlled substance while possessing a securi ty clearance. (GE 
3 at 39-40) 
In a March 2024 background interview, Applicant disclosed he purchased 
marijuana gummies in 2020 at a dispensary in State 2 (S2) where he resides. He said he 
consumed two marijuana gummies at a time at a few parties he attended between 2020 
and September 2021. He said he stopped using marijuana in September 2021, and that 
he does not intend to use it in the future. (GE 3, 6) 
The SOR alleges under Guideline H that Applicant used and purchased marijuana 
from January 2016 through September 2021 (SOR ¶¶ 1.a , 1.b), including while in a 
sensitive position from January 2020 through September 2021 (SOR ¶¶ 1.c, 1.d). Under 
Guideline E, the SOR cross-alleges his use and purchase of marijuana while in a sensitive 
position (SOR ¶ 2.a). 
Applicant did not submit documentary evidence but he offered comments in 
support of his case in mitigation. He said, “I admit to using marijuana with varying 
frequency over the January 2016 to September 2021 dates specified. ” He shared more 
information about his marijuana involvement: 
I maintain that this use [was] very infrequent, and never while actively on a 
job site or during work hours when I would have access to sensitive 
information. It remains a regret, but I hope that my discontinued use and 
good standing since these dates will allow me to maintain a position of 
public trust. I will continue to abstain from marijuana, or any other illegal 
substance, and consent to any drug testing that the agency deem s 
necessary to maintain an active security clearance. (Answer to SOR) 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
decision. An administrative judge must consider all available and reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
   
     
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
   
  
  
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865 
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant 
has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have 
established for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 15- 01253 at 3 
(App. Bd. Apr. 20, 2016). 
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of  proving a mitigating condition,  
and the burden of disproving it  never shifts to the Government.  See  ISCR Case No.  02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep.  22,  2005).   
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent  
with the national interest to grant or continue  his security clearance.” ISCR Case No.  01-
20700 at  3 (App. Bd.  Dec. 19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  Egan, 484 U.S. at 531.   
Analysis  
Guideline H, Drug Involvement  and Substance  Misuse  
The security concern for drug involvement and substance misuse is described in 
AG ¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
  
 
 
              
    
 
 
 
  
     
     
     
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
individual's reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person's ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any "controlled substance" as 
defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in 
this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
AG ¶ 25 describes conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying. Those that are potentially applicable are: 
(a)  
any
 substance misuse (see above definition);  
(c
)  illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation,  
pr
ocessing, manufacture, purchase, sale,  or  distribution; or possession of  
drug paraphernalia; and  
(f)  any illegal  dr ug use while granted access to classified information or  
holding a sensitive position.  
Appl
icant admitted he used and purchased marijuana from January 2016 through 
September 2021, including while in a sensitive position. His admissions are supported by 
other evidence in the record. AG ¶¶ 25(a), 25(c), and 25(f) apply. 
AG ¶ 26 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. The following 
are potentially applicable: 
(a)  the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or  happened  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur  or does not cast doubt  
on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment; and  
(b)  t he individual acknowledges  his or her drug involvement and substance  
misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and  
has  established a pattern of  abstinence, including, but not limited to:  
(1)  di sassociation from drug- using associates and contacts;  
(2) changing or  av oiding the environment where drugs were used;  
and  
(3) providing a signed statement  of  intent to abstain from  all drug  
involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future  
involvement  or misuse is grounds for revocation of  national security  
eligibility.   
5 
 
 
 
 
 
          
      
       
 
 
  
   
     
  
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
    
    
     
  
      
  
   
   
  
    
 
  
     
  
  
  
AG ¶¶ 26(a) and 26(b) are not fully established. Applicant disclosed he used and 
purchased marijuana from January 2016 to September 2018 in his October 2019 SCA. 
His statement about his marijuana involvement is compelling and worthy of including 
here: 
Even though I now reside in a state where marijuana is legal, I have not 
purchased any more, nor do I intend to. While I honestly believe the 
occasional use would not have ill effects on my judgment or career, I also 
believe it is unnecessary for me to relax or enjoy myself. I worked hard to 
start a career in this industry, and I’m more than happy to relinquish any 
behaviors that could harm my ability to continue to progress and grow. I 
have every intention of taking all necessary steps to ensure I am grant ed, 
and maintain, clearance from the government. 
Based on this statement,  DOD adjudicators  apparently concluded Applicant’s  
illegal drug involvement and substance misuse were behind him, that he no longer posed  
a national security risk, and granted him  a secret  security clearance in January 2020.  
Despite  the above proclamation,  however,  Applicant  purchased  marijuana again, this time  
in  S2,  his home state,  and  he  continued to use marijuana through  September 2021. An 
applicant’s use of illegal  drugs after completing a security clearance application, or  
otherwise being placed on notice of the inherent incongruity  between illegal drug use, and 
eligibility for  a security clearance, raises questions about an applicant’s judgment,  
reliability, and willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations.  ISCR Case No. 19-
00540 at 3 (App.  Bd.  Dec. 13, 2019). An applicant’s disqualifying conduct is particularly  
troublesome when it occurs while holding a clearance.  ISCR Case No. 06 -18270 at 3  
(App. Bd.  Nov. 7, 2007)   
Thus, AG ¶¶ 26(a) and 26(b) are not established despite the passage of time. 
Applicant, in making such a compelling statement, essentially promised that his federally 
illegal drug involvement was behind him while secretly engaging in the same behavior. In 
doing so, he seriously damaged his credibility and he presented no documentary 
evidence to support his assertions. There is no evidence that Applicant disassociated 
from drug-using friends or contacts , nor is there evidence he changed or avoided the 
environment where drugs were used. Applicant is unable to mitigate drug involvement 
and substance misuse security concerns through his evidence. 
Guideline E,  Personal Conduct  
The security concern under this guideline is described in AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to 
provide truthful and candid answers during the security clearance process 
or any other failure to cooperate with the security clearance process. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
      
  
   
  
       
       
 
    
  
     
  
   
       
 
      
AG ¶ 16 describes conditions that could raise a security concern and may 
be disqualifying. The following disqualifying conditions are potentially applicable: 
(d)  credible adverse information that is not explicitly covered under any   
ot
her  guideline and may not be sufficient by itself for an adverse   
determination,  but which, when combined with all available information,   
supports a whole- person assessment  of questionable judgment,   
untrustworthiness,  unreliability, lack of candor, unwillingness to comply with 
rules and regulations,  or other characteristics indicating that the individual   
may  not properly safeguard classified or sensitive information.  This  
includes, but is not limited to,  consideration of:  (3) a pattern of dishonesty   
or rule violations; and   
(e)  personal conduct,  or  concealment of information about  one’s conduct,  
that creates  a vulnerability to exploitation,  manipulation,  or duress by a  
foreign intelligence entity  or other individual  or group.  Such conduct  
includes: (1) engaging in activities which, if known, could affect  the person’s  
personal, professional, or community standing.  
The S
OR cross-alleged under Guideline E Applicant’s use and purchase of 
marijuana from January 2020 through September 2021 while in a sensitive position . 
Applicant’s decision to continue using and purchasing marijuana after being gran ted a 
secret security clearance created a vulnerability to exploitation, manipulation, or duress 
as it could affect his professional standing. AG ¶ 16(e) is applicable. However, AG ¶ 16(d) 
is not applicable because the alleged conduct is already covered under Guideline H. 
AG ¶ 17 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. The following 
are potentially applicable: 
(c)  the offense is so minor, or so much time has passed, or the behavior is  
s
o infrequent, or it happened under  such unique circumstances that it is  
unlikely to recur  and  does not cast doubt  on the individual's reliability,  
trustworthiness, or  good judgment; and  
(d)  the individual has acknowledged the behavior and obtained counseling  
t
o change the behavior or taken other positive steps to alleviate the  
stressors, circumstances, or factors that  contributed to untrustworthy,  
unreliable, or  other inappropriate behavior,  and such behavior is  unlikely to  
recur.  
AG ¶¶ 17(
c) and 17(d) are not established. Comments made in Guideline H above 
also apply here. Applicant exercised poor judgment by continuing to use marijuana after 
he was granted a secret security clearance in 20 20. His conduct created a vulnerability 
to exploitation, manipulation, or duress , which casts doubt on his current reliability, 
trustworthiness and judgment, and demonstrates an unwillingness to comply with federal 
rules and regulations. Applicant acknowledged his behavior but he has not received 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
        
   
 
 
     
     
    
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
 
   
 
 
   
   
 
 
  
 
  
    
      
 
  
counseling to change it . His statement about his marijuana use and involvement while 
working in a sensitive position is revealing: 
I maintain that this use  [was] very infrequent,  and never while actively on a  
job site or  during work hours when I would have access to  sensitive  
information.   
Given Applicant’s stated attitude and belief about his marijuana involvement, 
objective, reliable proof is required to support his assertion that his federally illegal drug 
involvement is fully behind him . Any federally illegal drug use, no matter how small, still 
constitutes a rule violation. The evidence submitted by Applicant is insufficient to establish 
either mitigating condition. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. In applying the whole-
person concept, an administrative judge must evaluate an applicant’s eligibility for a 
security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct and all relevant 
circumstances. An administrative judge should consider the nine adjudicative process 
factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.   
I have incorporated my comments under Guidelines H and E in my whole- person 
analysis and applied the adjudicative factors in AG ¶ 2(d). Because this case is decided 
on the written record, I had no opportunity to question Applicant about any of the security 
concerns in the case, nor did I have an opportunity to observe his demeanor and thereby 
assess his credibility. 
Therefore, after weighing the disqualifying and mitigating conditions under 
Guidelines H and E, and evaluating all evidence in the whole-person context, I conclude 
Applicant failed to mitigate the security concerns raised in this case. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
    
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
     
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline H:  AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 1.a  –  1.d:  Against  Applicant  
Paragraph 2, Guideline E:  AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraph 2.a: Against  Applicant  
Conclusion  
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant’s eligibility 
for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Gatha LaFaye 
Administrative Judge 
9 