 
 
 
                                                              
                            
  DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
    DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS       
           
             
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
     
       
       
    
          
          
      
     
     
 
     
              
          
        
          
         
            
______________ 
______________ 
In  the  matter of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR  Case No.  24-01064  
  )    
 )  
Applicant for Security Clearance  )  
Appearances  
For Government: Andrew Henderson, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
01/15/2025 
Decision  
Lokey Anderson, Darlene D., Administrative Judge: 
On January 24, 2024 , Applicant submitted a security clearance application ( e-
QIP). (Government Exhibit 1.) On August 20, 2024 , the Defense Counterintelligence 
and Security Agency Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS) issued Applicant 
a Statement of Reasons (SOR), detailing security concerns under Guideline H, Drug 
Involvement and Substance Abuse; and Guideline J, Criminal Conduct The action was 
taken under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DoD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial 
Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended 
(Directive); and the Adjudicative Guidelines, effective within the DoD after June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR on September 11, 2024, and September 16, 202 4, 
and requested a hearing before an administrative judge. The case was assigned to me 
on October 4, 2024 . The Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals issued a notice of 
hearing on October 10, 2024, and the hearing was convened as scheduled on October 
29, 2024 . At the hearing, the Government offered five exhibits, referred to as 
Government Exhibits 1 through 5, which were admitted without objection. The Applicant 
offered no exhibits. He testified on his own behalf. The record remained open until 
1 
 
 
 
      
         
       
         
 
 
 
 
          
           
          
    
 
 
        
        
    
  
 
        
         
           
         
          
           
          
             
   
 
            
         
         
        
        
          
         
          
       
          
        
           
 
           
           
            
close of business on November 20, 2024 , to allow the Applicant to submit supporting 
documentation. Applicant submitted one Post -Hearing Exhibit, consisting of six 
documents collectively referred to as Applicant’s Post -Hearing Exhibit A, which was 
admitted without objection. DOHA received the transcript of the hearing (Tr.) on 
November 19, 2024. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 39 years old. He is married a second time and has no children. He 
has an Associate’s degree. He is employed by a defense contractor as a Production 
Lead Electrical Engineer . He is seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection 
with his employment. 
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
The Government alleges that the Applicant has used controlled substances that 
cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner inconsistent with their 
intended purpose, which can raise questions about an individual’s reliability and 
trustworthiness. 
Applicant has a history of illegal drug use involving marijuana from about April 
1998 through January 2023. He purchased marijuana on various occasions from 
August 2007 to about December 2022. He also used cocaine once in 2006. In his 
interrogatories dated August 8, 2024 , he stated that he used marijuana three to five 
times a week, at night , from 1998 to January 2023. He testified that it was more like 
one to three times a week during those years. He began working for his current 
employer and completed a security clearance questionnaire for the first time in March 
2023. He stopped using marijuana at th at time with no intentions to ever use it again. 
(Tr. pp. 19-24.) 
Applicant stated that he began using marijuana as a freshman in high school . 
After graduating from high school, in 2005, he joined the United States Army . He 
married his first wife in 2006. He spent about 1 5 months in the Army before he was 
separated for illegal drug use , cocaine. On April 19, 2006, he was subject to a 
urinalysis inspection which came back positive for cocaine. He explained that he had 
attended a weekend house party with his wife and friends and consumed excessive 
amounts of alcohol and he used cocaine. Three days after th e party, Applicant took the 
urinalysis which came back positive for cocaine. He received an Article 15, Non -
Judicial Punishment, and received 45 days extra duty; 45 days base restriction; a 
reduction in rank from E -2 to E -1; and a loss of two months pay . He was 
administratively separated from the Army, and he received a General Under Honorable 
Condition discharge. (Tr. pp. 25-30.) 
After leaving the Army, Applicant continued to use marijuana on occasion for 
anxiety and stress. He stated that he and his first wife were not compatible and had a 
toxic relationship which contributed to his marijuana use . They divorced in 2008. 
2 
 
 
 
        
        
 
       
        
          
           
           
         
           
               
              
      
        
        
       
           
           
       
            
              
   
     
        
           
        
          
        
         
           
       
          
            
        
              
       
 
       
         
           
         
      
        
 
 
 
Following their divorce, Applicant worked for several companies d oing technical work. 
His work product was never affected by his infrequent marijuana use. (Tr. pp. 30-35.) 
On New Year’s Eve , day, in 2014/2015, Applicant suffered a traumatic and very 
serious accident which changed his life forever. Six months after marrying his second 
wife, Applicant and his new wife were visiting out-of-state friends. They were sled riding 
in the snow and being towed behind a sled machine. Unbeknownst to anyone, 
including their friends who took them sledding, the sled machine pul ling the Applicant 
and his sled, pulled him into a motor-cross track that took Applicant’s sled up-and-off of 
the side of the motor-cross jump. Upon impact, from five to six feet in the air, Applicant 
fell and hit the hard packed snow , and shattered his T -12 vertebrae. Applicant was 
instantly paralyzed from the waist down. This sent a lot of bone fragmentation into his 
spinal column that severed most of his nerves. Applicant underwent two immediate 
emergency surgeries; two weeks in the ICU; and spent four weeks in the hospital before 
he was released for one year of extensive physical therapy on how to learn to walk and 
develop his motor skills again. Following the accident , Applicant’s doctor prescribed 
marijuana for him to use instead of the opioids with their side-effects to help address his 
anxiety and stress, and to suppress pain from his spinal cord injury. Applicant 
explained that b reaking his spine has been extremely difficult both mentally and 
physically, but he continues to maintain a positive outlook on life and is continuing to 
develop his physical abilities. (Tr. pp. 40-43.) 
Applicant stated that when he started working for his current employer in January 
2023, he decided to quit using marijuana for his pain. Instead, he now uses Tylenol and 
exercise to deal with his pain. He no longer uses marijuana because he recognized the 
career path opportunities available to him that his current company offers him, and his 
ability to progress with the company which means far more to him than temporary relief 
from marijuana usage. (Tr. 34.) He realizes that his accident has helped him in many 
ways to greatly mature and not to take anything for granted. He stated that he 
appreciates everything much more , and he has a new lease on life. Although he is 
unable to do many things he used to do, he accepts that, and has moved on to focus on 
developing other outlets such as reading and woodworking, among other hobbies. He 
chooses not to be depressed or upset about his situation. In fact, h e stated that he 
chooses happiness, and he is grateful for everything he has in his life. He and his wife 
have a great relationship and he does not have the anxiety and stress that he once had 
in his first marriage. (Tr, pp. 37-43.) 
A letter or recommendation from a Naval Officer and Chief Engineer for more 
than 20 years on nuclear submarines , who works closely with the Applicant , confidently 
stated that based on his time spent in the field with the Appli cant, during multiple field 
deployments, he would have zero reservation about placing him in the most sensitive of 
positions safeguarding our national security and protecting out most sensit ive classified 
programs. Applicant’s integrity and character are said to be beyond reproach. 
(Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit A.) 
3 
 
 
 
        
    
      
       
        
        
           
      
     
      
           
       
              
            
            
  
 
     
             
 
 
  
      
 
      
        
       
         
   
 
          
    
           
     
         
      
      
    
 
      
    
       
         
 
  
         
        
Letters of recommendation from the Company Program Director, the Senior 
Manager of Production, (who is also Applicant’s direct supervisor), and fellow team 
member Engineers, all give raving reviews of the Applicant and his outstanding and 
exceptional characteristics and abilities. They each describe his outstanding character 
and leadership qualities including his excellent work ethic, and dedication to the core 
mission of the company. Applicant is said to be a true professional in every sense of the 
word. He is a man of integrity, who will act ethically and responsibly, and is trusted to 
work autonomously. He is recognized for his strict adherence to the stringent security 
protocols and is acutely aware of the importance of safeguarding sensitive data. He is a 
beacon of reliability and professionalism, with outstanding moral character who 
consistently g oes above and beyond the call of duty. H e leads by example and his 
lifestyle choices command respect. His reliability and ethical behavior have consistently 
stood out earning him the respect of his peers. He has stepped up on weekends and 
extra hours to support his overall team to make up for time lost for late design releases 
by a supporting team which has inspired those around him to elevate their personal 
work behavior. (Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit A.) 
Applicant’s Midyear Performance Review for 2024, dated September 16, 2024, 
reflects that overall he is doing a good job and his supervisor is happy to have him on 
the team.  (Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit A.) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The 
administrative judge’s over arching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and 
commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a ), the entire process is a conscientious 
scrutiny of a number o f variables known as the whole -person concept. The 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I 
have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical , and based on the 
evidence contained in the record. 
Directive ¶ E3.1.14, requires the Government to present evidence t hat 
establishes controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the 
4 
 
 
 
       
  
            
  
 
            
         
     
             
     
        
        
        
  
 
          
               
       
 
 
 
 
 
        
 
 
         
         
       
       
     
    
        
      
       
  
 
          
 
 
 
 
“applicant is responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, 
extenuate, or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel, 
and has the ultimate burden of persuasi on as to obtaining a favorable clearance 
decision.” 
A person who applies for access to classified information seeks to enter into a 
fiduciary relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or 
safeguard classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally 
permissible extrapolation as to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of 
classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Drug Involvement and 
Substance Misuse is set forth at AG ¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non -prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual's reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior 
may lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person's ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any "controlled substance" 
as defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term 
adopted in this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
The guideline at AG ¶ 25 contains two conditions that could raise a security 
concern and may be disqualifying: 
(a) any substance  misuse (see above  definition);  and    
(c)  illegal possession  of a  controlled  substance, including  cultivation,  
processing, manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession  of  
drug paraphernalia.   
5 
 
 
 
       
            
  
 
        
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            
    
        
         
      
         
          
       
       
         
          
         
          
         
       
              
         
     
          
           
Applicant’s marijuana use from about 1989 to January 2023; his illegal marijuana 
purchases from 2007 to 2022 ; and his cocaine use in 2006 is troubling. The above 
disqualifying conditions apply. 
The guideline at AG ¶ 26 contains conditions that could mitigate security 
concerns: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or happened  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur or does  not cast  doubt  
on  the  individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  judgment;  
and  
(b) the  individual acknowledges his or  her drug  involvement and  
substance  misuse, provides evidence  of actions taken  to  overcome  this  
problem, and  has established  a  pattern  of abstinence,  including,  but  not  
limited to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts;   
(2) changing  or avoiding  the  environment where drugs were  
used; and   
(3) providing  a  signed  statement of intent to  abstain  from  all  
drug  involvement and substance  misuse,  acknowledging  that  
any future  involvement or misuse  is grounds for revocation  
of national security eligibility.  
There is no question that Applicant’s long history of illegal marijuana use and his 
illegal purchases of marijuana that occurred prior to his accident in 2014/2015 
demonstrated poor judgment, immaturity and poor judgment. He also used cocaine in 
2006, which was responsible for him being administratively separated from the U.S. 
Army. His misconduct at that time, showed a pattern of flawed behavior and 
irresponsibility. However, since his accident in 2014/2015, he has only used marijuana 
that has been prescribed by his physician for his broken spine and related health 
conditions. As discussed above, Applicant survived a very traumatic accident, the 
repercussions of which have drastically changed his life. He now understands that his 
actions have c onsequences, and instead of being impulsive , he gives deep thought to 
things he does before he takes any action. He has learned to appreciate the good that 
exists in his life , and to appreciate the opportunities that he does not want to lose. In 
January 2023, Applicant made the decision to discontinue his use of marijuana for pain 
management purposes and instead he now uses Tylenol and exercise . He greatly 
values the opportunities his employer has given him to work for the defense industry 
and to be able to provide assistance to our military members. In fact, because he was 
young and irresponsible during his earlier years in the military, he feels that he owes the 
military his talent and abilities now that he has matured. Applicant understands the 
importance of maintaining a drug free lifestyle , and why it is important to be responsible 
and trustworthy on order to properly safeguard the national secrets . Based upon the 
6 
 
 
 
         
     
        
          
          
        
         
         
 
 
        
   
 
     
     
  
 
          
   
 
 
 
        
           
             
         
      
 
        
   
 
 
fact that he has shown great maturity and responsibility since his accident, and he no 
longer uses marijuana, and has not used marijuana for over nine years without a 
prescription from his doctor , his earlier history of illegal drug use has been mitigated. 
Assuming Applicant continue s to maintain a drug -free lifestyle and adhere to the DoD 
requirements for access to classified information , he will be eligible for a security 
clearance. In the event that he does not maintain a drug-free lifestyle, his clearance will 
be in immediate jeopardy. Applicant meets the requirements for eligibility to access 
classified information. Mitigating conditions set forth above are applicable. 
Guideline J: Criminal Conduct  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Criminal Conduct is set out in 
AG ¶ 30: 
Criminal activity creates doubt about a person's judgment, reliability, and 
trustworthiness. By its very nature, it calls into question a person's ability 
or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations. 
The guideline at AG ¶ 31 contains five disqualifying conditions that could raise a 
security concern and may be disqualifying. Two conditions apply, as discussed below: 
(a) a  pattern of minor offenses, any one  of  which  on  its own  would be  
unlikely to  affect  a  national security  eligibility decision,  but which in  
combination  cast doubt on  the  individual's judgment,  reliability,  or 
trustworthiness; and  
(b) evidence  (including, but not limited  to, a  credible  allegation, an  
admission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of  
whether the individual was formally charged,  prosecuted, or convicted.  
Applicant engaged in criminal conduct, in violation of state and Federal laws, 
when he used marijuana from 1989 through 2023, and when he purchased marijuana 
from 2007 through 2016. His use of cocaine in 2006, was also in violation of state and 
Federal law. This conduct demonstrated poor judgment, unreliability, and 
untrustworthiness. This conduct raises the above security concerns. 
The guideline in AG ¶ 32 contains several conditions that could mitigate criminal 
conduct security concerns. 
(a) so  much  time  has elapsed  since  the  criminal behavior  happened, or it  
happened  under such  unusual circumstances, that it  is unlikely to  recur 
and  does not cast doubt on  the  individual's reliability, trustworthiness, or  
good judgment; and  
(d) there is evidence  of successful rehabilitation; including, but not limited  
to, the  passage  of time  without recurrence  of criminal activity, restitution,  
compliance  with  the  terms of parole or probation, job  training  or  higher  
7 
 
 
 
 
 
      
           
          
             
       
        
 
 
     
           
          
      
        
         
        
        
  
 
          
      
         
    
 
 
       
   
  
 
       
 
        
           
         
              
         
education, good  employment record, or constructive  community
involvement.  
Applicant admittedly engaged in criminal conduct in the earlier years when he 
used and purchased marijuana , and when he used cocaine. Since his accident in 
2014/2015, he has only used marijuana prescribed by a physician for his medical 
conditions. His use of cocaine occurred in 2006, and has not recurred . Thus, he has 
not engaged in any criminal behavior for about ten years. The evidence establish es 
mitigation under both of the above conditions. Criminal Conduct is found for the 
Applicant. 
Considered in totality, Applicant’s conduct demonstrates good judgment, 
reliability, and/or the ability to abide by rules and regulations. To be entrusted with the 
privilege of holding a security clearance, applicants are expected to abide by all laws, 
regulations and policies that apply to them. Applicant no longer uses illegal drugs and 
has no intention of using them in the future. Under the particular facts of this case, he 
shows the requisite character or judgment of someone who has the maturity, integrity, 
good judgment , and reliability necessary to access classified information. Applicant 
meets the qualifications for access to classified information. 
Whole-Person  Concept  
Under the whole -person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of  
rehabilitation  and  other permanent  behavioral changes;  (7) the  motivation  
for the  conduct;  (8) the  potential  for pressure, coercion,  exploitation, or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood  of continuation  or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2( c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a security 
clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guideline H and Guideline J in my whole -person analysis. An individual who holds a 
security clearance is expected to comply with the law at all times. Applicant 
demonstrates the level of maturity needed for access to classified information. This is 
an individual in whom the Government can be confident to know that he will always 
follow rules and regulations and do the right thing, even when no one is looking. 
8 
 
 
 
        
  
          
       
     
         
     
 
 
 
      
  
 
    
 
     
 
     
 
       
 
 
 
        
       
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
Applicant is qualified for access to cl assified information and does meet the 
qualifications for a security clearance. 
Overall, the record eviden ce leaves me with without questions and doubts as to 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance . For all these reasons, I 
conclude App licant has mitigated the Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse, and 
Criminal Conduct security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by ¶ E3.1.25 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  H:   FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a  through  1.c  For Applicant 
Paragraph  2, Guideline J  FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 2.a  For  Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant national security eligibility 
for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Darlene Lokey Anderson 
Administrative Judge 
9 