 
 
 
                                                              
 
 
                                       
                     DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE                      
   DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS  
                                   
      
           
             
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
   
  
    
  
______________ 
______________ 
In the matter of:  )  
 )  
           )   ISCR  Case No. 24-01787  
  )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance  )  
 
 
A
ppearances  
For Government: 
Tara Karoian, Esquire, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: 
Pro se 
07/10/2025 
Decision  
CEFOLA, Richard A., Administrative Judge: 
Statement  of the Case  
On September 20, 2022, Applicant submitted a security clearance application ( e-
QIP). On January 2, 2025, in accordance with DoD Directive 5220.6, as amended 
(Directive), the Department of Defense issued Applicant a Statement of Reasons (SOR) 
alleging facts that raise security concerns under Guidelines H and E. The action was 
taken under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information Within 
Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of Defense Directive 5220.6, 
Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
    
   
   
   
  
   
 
 
 
   
     
 
     
    
     
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG)  effective within the Department  
of Defense on June 8,  2017.  
Applicant answered the SOR in writing (Answer) on February 10, 2025, and 
requested a hearing before an administrative judge. The case was assigned to me on 
April 10, 2025. The Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a Notice of 
Hearing on April 14, 2025. I convened the hearing as scheduled on June 5, 2025. The 
Government offered Government Exhibits (GXs) 1 through 5 , which were admitted into 
evidence without objection. Applicant testified on h er own behalf. The record was left 
open for the receipt of additional evidence. On July 7 , 2025, the Applicant offered 
Applicant Exhibits (AppXs) A~D, which were admitted into evidence without objection. 
The record closed at that time. DOHA received the transcript of the hearing (TR) on June 
16, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant admitted all the allegations in SOR. After a thorough and careful review 
of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. 
Applicant is a 25-year-old employee of a defense contractor. She has a Bachelor 
of Science degree. She has been employed with the defense contractor since August of 
2022. She is unmarried and has no children. (TR at page 5 line 14 to page 6 line 19, at 
page 15 lines 2~24, and GX 1 at pages 5, 10~11, 12 and 17.) 
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
1.a. and 1.b.  Applicant admits  to  using marijuana/Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC)  on  
numerous occasions from  August of 2018  until her last usage in May of 2023.  She used 
marijuana,  once in May of  2023, after  being granted a security clearance in November of  
2022.  (TR at page 15 line 25 to page 19 line 14,  at  page 22 line 18 to page 24 line 25,  
and at page 27 line 17 to page 29 line 11.)   Applicant has  submitted  a signed statement  
of  intent to abstain from  all drug involvement. (AppX  C.)  
Guideline E  - Personal Conduct  
2.a. Applicant admits that she falsified  her  September 20,  2022,  e-QIP,  in 
answering,  “No,” to,  “Section 23  –  Illegal Use of Drugs  . .  . In the last seven (7) years.”  
She had used marijuana, as noted above.  Applicant  did not correct this falsification until  
she  executed her  February 23, 2024,  e-QIP, 17  months later. (TR at page 19 line 15 to  
page 22 line 3,  at  page 25 line 1 to page 27 lime 12, and GXs 1 and 2.)  I find t his  to be a  
willful  falsification.  
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
  
 
  
   
   
   
 
  
   
  
   
    
  
 
  
  
   
  
   
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for national security eligibility, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines (AG) list 
potentially disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in 
evaluating an applicant’s national security eligibility. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. The entire 
process is a conscientious scrutiny of applicable guidelines in the context of a number of 
variables known as the whole- person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. I have not drawn inferences based on mere speculation or 
conjecture. 
Directive ¶ E3.1.14, requires the Government to present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel, and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable clearance decision.” 
A person applying for national security eligibility seeks to enter into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants national 
security eligibility. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk the 
applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as 
to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified or sensitive information. 
Finally, as emphasized in Section 7 of Executive Order 10865, “[a]ny determination under 
this order adverse to an applicant shall be a determination in terms of the national interest 
and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
       
     
     
 
 
 
 
See also Executive Order 12968,  Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for  access  
to classified or sensitive information.)  
Analysis  
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
The security concern relating to the guideline Drug Involvement and Substance 
Misuse is set forth at AG ¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual's reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person's ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any "controlled substance" as 
defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in 
this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
The guideline at AG ¶ 25 contains seven conditions that could raise a security 
concern and may be disqualifying. Three conditions are established: 
(a) any substance misuse (see above definition);  
(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation,  
pr
ocessing, manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession of  
drug paraphernalia; and  
(f) any illegal  dr ug use while granted access to classified information or  
holding a sensitive position.  
Appel
lant used marijuana from August 2018 until her last usage in May of 2023, a 
period of about five years . She had a security clearance the last time Applicant used 
marijuana. Therefore, AG ¶ 25 (a), (c), and (f) are established. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
      
     
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
     
  
 
  
 
 
 
The guideline at AG  ¶ 26 contains four  conditions  that could mitigate security  
concerns.  Two  conditions  may be applicable:  
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or
  happened  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur  or does not cast doubt  
on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment; and  
(b) the individual acknowledges  hi s or her drug involvement and substance  
misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and  
has established a pattern of  abstinence, including, but not limited to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-us ing associates and contacts;  
(2) changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were  
us
ed; and  
(3) providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all  
dr
ug involvement  and  substance misuse, acknowledging that  
any future involvement or misuse is grounds  for revocation of  
national security eligibility.  
Al
though Applicant’s last usage of marijuana was about two years prior to her 
hearing; and she has submitted a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug 
involvement in the future, I cannot overlook the fact that Applicant used marijuana after 
being granted a security clearance. Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse is found 
against Applicant. 
Guideline E  - Personal Conduct  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Personal Conduct is set out in 
AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to 
cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes. The following will normally result in 
an unfavorable national security eligibility determination, security clearance 
action, or cancellation of further processing for national security eligibility: 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
      
   
 
  
   
 
 
       
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
(a) refusal, or failure without reasonable cause, to undergo or  
c
ooperate with security processing, including but  not limited  
to meeting with a security investigator for subject interview,  
completing security forms or releases, cooperation with  
medical or  psychological evaluation, or polygraph  
examination, if  authorized and required; and  
(b) refusal to provide full, frank, and truthful answers to lawful  
ques
tions of investigators, security officials,  or other official  
representatives in connection with a personnel security  or  
trustworthiness determination.  
The gui
deline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 16. One is potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) deliberate omission, concealment,  or falsification of relevant facts from  
any personnel  security questionnaire, personal  history statement, or  similar  
form  used to conduct investigations, determine employment qualifications,  
award benefits  or status,  determine national security eligibility or   
trustworthiness, or  award fiduciary responsibilities.  
Applicant falsified her September 2022 e-QIP. The evidence is sufficient to raise 
this disqualifying condition. 
AG ¶ 17 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. I considered 
all of the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 17 including: 
(a) the individual  made prompt,  good-faith efforts to correct the omission,  
concealment,  or falsification before being confronted with the facts.  
Applicant only corrected her falsehood, 17 months later , when she executed 
another e-QIP. This is not a “good-faith” effort to correct her falsehood. Personal Conduct 
is found against Applicant. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s national security eligibility by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct 
and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
   
 
 
 
   
 
     
 
    
   
 
     
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
     
 
 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.   
According to AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant national 
security eligibility must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the applicable guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guidelines H and E in my whole-person analysis. Some of the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) were 
addressed under those guidelines, but some warrant additional comment. 
Applicant is a valued member in the defense industry, as noted by her manager. 
She performs well at her job. (AppX A.) 
Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts as to Applicant’s 
eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. For all these reasons, I conclude 
Applicant failed to mitigate the Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse, and Personal 
Conduct security concern s. This should not dissuade Applicant from applying for a 
security clearance in the future. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings  for or  against Applicant  on the allegations set forth in the SOR,  as  
required by  ¶  E3.1.25 of  the Directive, are:  
Paragraph 1,  Guideline G:  AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a  and 1.b:  Against  Applicant  
Paragraph 2, Guideline E:  AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraph  2.a:  Against  Applicant  
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
      
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Richard A. Cefola 
Administrative Judge 
8 