 
                                     
                       DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE                       
      DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS  
                                  
   
           
             
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
       
   
         
          
      
 
           
        
         
______________ 
______________ 
In the  matter of:  )  
 )  
            )   ISCR  Case  No.  24-01544  
  )  
Applicant for Security Clearance  )  
Appearances  
For Government: 
Tara Karoian, Esquire, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: 
Grant Couch, Esquire, Applicant’s Counsel 
03/17/2025 
Decision  
CEFOLA, Richard A., Administrative Judge: 
Statement  of the Case  
On September 17, 2024, in accordance with DoD Directive 5220.6, as amended 
(Directive), the Department of Defense issued Applicant a Statement of Reasons (SOR) 
alleging facts that raise security concerns under Guideline F (Financial Considerations). 
The SOR further informed Applicant that, based on information available to the 
government, DoD adjudicators could not make the preliminary affirmative finding it is 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue Applicant’s security 
clearance. 
Applicant answered the SOR on October 16, 2024, and requested a hearing before 
an administrative judge. (Answer.) The case was assigned to me on December 18, 2024. 
The Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a notice of hearing on 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
          
        
          
      
         
              
 
 
 
          
         
  
 
           
       
       
    
                
          
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
January 13, 2025 , scheduling the hearing for February 27 , 2025 . T he hearing was 
convened as scheduled. The Government offered Exhibits (GXs) 1 through 4, which were 
admitted into evidence . Applicant testified on his own behalf and offered documents, 
which I marked Applicant’s Exhibits (AppXs) A through L, which were admitted into 
evidence. The record was left open until March 26, 2025 , for receipt of additional 
documentation. Applicant offered documents, which I marked AppXs M through R, which 
were admitted into evidence. DOHA received the transcript of the hearing (TR) on March 
10, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant admitted to the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1. a, through 1.e, and 1.h. He 
denied SOR allegation s ¶¶ 1.f. and 1.g . After a thorough and careful review of the 
pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. 
Applicant is a 52-year-old employee of a defense contractor . He is married and 
has two adult children. Applicant has a bachelor’s degree in project management . He 
served in the U.S. Navy “22 years, 11 months,” and retired as a Chief Petty Officer. 
Applicant attributes his past financial difficulties due to a “bout” with cancer in 2022~2023. 
(TR at page 4 lines 7~16, at page 11 line 19 to page 15 line 2, at page 20 lines 12~19, at 
page 21 line 23 to page 24 line 9, at page 42 line 15 to page 43 line 4, and AppX C.) 
Guideline F - Financial Considerations  
1.a.  Applicant initially admitted  this alleged  past-due  debt in  the  amount  of  about  
$25,222  to  Creditor A, thinking  it  was for a  repossessed motorcycle  (which  is in  fact  
alleged  as allegation  1.h, and  will  be  discussed  below).   He is using  the  services of a  
fiscal intermediary to  dispute  this alleged  debt as evidenced  by documentation.  (TR at  
page 15 line  14 to page 16 line 21, at page 34 line  16 to page 37 line 24, and  AppX R.)  
1.b. Applicant admits a  past-due  debt to  Creditor B  in the  amount of about $5,128. 
He is making  monthly payments of $213  towards this debt as evidenced  by  
documentation.  (TR at  page  16  line  22  to  Page  17  line  21,  at  page  38  lines  6~16,  and  
AppX O.)  
1.c.  Applicant admits a  past-due  debt to  Creditor C in the  amount of about $3,847. 
He has set up  a  payment plan  by which  Applicant will  be  making  monthly payments of  
$320  towards this admitted  debt,  as evidenced  by documentation. (TR at page  17  line  22  
to Page  18  line  15, at page 38 lines 17~22, and AppX  N.)  
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
        
      
           
 
 
          
     
          
     
      
       
1.d.  Applicant initially admitted  this alleged  past-due  debt in  the  amount  of  about  
$1,292  to  Creditor D.   He is now  using  the  services of  a  fiscal intermediary to  dispute  this  
alleged  debt as evidenced  by documentation.  (TR at page  18  line  16  to  page  19  line  4, at  
page 31  line  21 to page 34  line  15, and AppX R.)  
1.e. Applicant admits a  past-due  debt to  Creditor E  in the  amount of about $729. 
This debt  “was settled  in  full,” as  evidenced  by  documentation. (TR at  page  19  lines  5~16,  
and  AppX  Q.)  
1.f.  Applicant  denies  a  past-due  debt  to  Creditor F  in  the  amount  of  about  $700. 
This debt  has  “a  balance  of $0.00,” as evidenced  by documentation.  (TR at  page  19  lines  
17~24, and AppX  P.)  
1.g. Applicant denies a  past-due  debt to  Creditor G in the  amount of  about $361. 
This debt has been  “PAID,” as evidenced  by  documentation.  (TR at page  19  line  25  to  
page 20 line  7, and  AppX  M.)  
1.h.  Applicant admits a  past-due  debt  to  Creditor H  in the  amount of about  $12,026, 
as the  result  of  a  voluntary repossession  of  his motorcycle, which  was purchased  for  
$51,057  before his cancer diagnosis. This debt has been  discharged  by the  creditor,  and  
an  IRS  Form  1099-C was sent to  Applicant’s former address. He is awaiting  receipt  of a  
replacement Form  1099-C, and  thereby  will report it  as  income  on  an  amended  IRS  
income  tax  return. (TR at page  20  line  8  to page 21  line  22, at page  29  line  3  to page 31  
line  21, at  page  42 line 15 to page 43 line  11, and  AppX  B.)  
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s national security eligibility, the administrative judge 
must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief introductory 
explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially disqualifying 
conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an applicant’s 
national security eligibility. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The administrative 
judge’s over arching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and common sense decision. 
According to AG ¶ 2(a ), the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number o f 
variables known as the whole -person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            
 
 
      
    
         
       
 
 
        
         
       
      
    
 
            
         
     
             
     
         
         
    
 
 
       
             
        
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical , and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR . Directive ¶ E3.1.15 states the “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel , and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable clearance decision.” 
A person who applies for access to classified information seeks to enter into a 
fiduciary relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation as to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Section 7 of Executive Order (EO) 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be 
“in terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty 
of the applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple 
prerequisites for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline F - Financial Considerations  
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
 
     
   
            
   
       
          
     
    
    
        
       
  
 
 
    
     
 
 
 
       
   
 
     
   
 
 
The security concern relating to the guideline for Financial Considerations is set 
out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensi tive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or depen dence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
Affluence that cannot be explained by known sources of income is also a 
security concern insofar as it may result from criminal activity, including 
espionage. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise sec urity concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. Two is potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) inability to satisfy debts;  and  
(c)  a history of not meeting financial obligations.  
Applicant had significant, admitted past-due indebtedness totaling about $24,000 
The evidence is sufficient to raise these disqualifying conditions. 
AG ¶ 20 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. I considered 
all of the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 including: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or occurred  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur and  does not  cast doubt  
on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;  
(b) the  conditions  that resulted  in the  financial problem  were  largely  beyond  
the  person's control  (e.g.,  loss of  employment,  a  business downturn,  
unexpected  medical emergency,  a  death,  divorce  or separation, clear  
victimization  by predatory lending  practices, or identity  theft), and  the  
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
        
     
     
 
 
          
      
         
    
 
 
       
   
  
 
       
 
         
(c)  the  individual has received  or is receiving  financial counseling  for the  
problem  from  a  legitimate  and  credible  source,  such  as  a  non-profit  credit  
counseling  service, and  there are clear indications that the  problem  is being  
resolved  or is under control;  
(d) the  individual initiated  and  is adhering  to  a  good-faith  effort to  repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  and  
(e) the  individual has  a  reasonable basis to  dispute  the  legitimacy  of the  
past-due  debt which is the cause of the  problem and provides documented  
proof to  substantiate  the  basis of the  dispute  or provides evidence  of actions  
to resolve the issue.  
Applicant’s financial problems can be directly attributed to his recent cancer. He 
has addressed all his admitted past-due indebtedness; and as such, is “on the road” to 
financial recovery. Applicant has demonstrated that future financial problems are unlikely. 
Mitigation under AG ¶ 20 has been established. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole -person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  
and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct;  
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2( c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a security 
clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guideline F in my whole -person analysis. Some of the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) were 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
            
  
 
    
     
      
 
 
        
    
 
   
 
     
 
 
      
       
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
addressed under those guidelines, but some warrant additional comment. Applicant 
served honorably in the U.S. Navy for more than 22 years (AppX F), and is well respected 
at his present civilian position (AppX L). 
Overall, the record eviden ce leaves me without questions or doubts as to 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance . For all these reasons, I 
conclude Applicant mitigated the Financial Considerations security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by ¶ E3.1.25 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  F:  FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a~1.h:  For Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant national security eligibility for a 
security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Richard A. Cefola 
Administrative Judge 
7 