 
 
 
                                                              
     
                      DEPARTMENT  OF DEFENSE  
   DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS        
           
             
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
     
 
       
           
        
   
     
    
       
     
      
 
 
         
            
       
           
______________ 
______________ 
In  the  matter of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR  Case No.  24-01716  
  )    
 )  
Applicant for Security Clearance  )  
Appearances  
For Government: George A. Hawkins, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
02/20/2025 
Decision  
LOKEY ANDERSON, Darlene D., Administrative Judge: 
Statement of Case  
On November 8, 2023 , Applicant submitted a security clearance application ( e-
QIP). (Item 3.) On September 26, 2024, the Defense C ounterintelligence and Security 
Agency Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS) issued Applicant a Statement 
of Reasons (SOR), detailing security concerns under Guideline F, Financial 
Considerations. The action was taken under Executive Order 10865 (EO), Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DoD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive); and the Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining 
Eligibility for Access to Classified Information , effective within the DoD after June 8 , 
2017. 
Applicant responded to the SOR (Answer) , which was received on or about 
September 24, 2024. (Item 1.) He requested that his case be decided by an 
administrative judge on the written record. Department Counsel submitted the 
Government’s written case on November 1, 2024 . A complete copy of the File of 
1 
 
 
 
         
       
       
             
        
  
 
 
 
            
           
          
       
 
 
       
     
       
 
 
        
       
           
         
              
      
    
 
          
    
 
      
          
      
     
       
            
  
 
      
             
          
        
 
 
Relevant Material (FORM), containing eight Items was received by the Applicant on 
November 17, 2024 . He was afforded an opportunity to file objections and submit 
material in refutation, extenuation, or mitigation within 30 days of receipt of the FORM. 
Applicant submit ted no response to the FORM . DOHA assigned the case to me on 
February 4, 2025 . Items 1 through 8 will be hereinafter referred to as Government 
Exhibits 1 through 8. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 47 years old and married with no children . He has a high school 
diploma, some college, and military training. He is currently employed as a driver with 
Door Dash but is being sponsored for a security clearance by a defense contractor. He 
is seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection with possible future employment. 
Guideline F - Financial Considerations  
The Government alleged that Applicant is ineligible for a clearance because he 
made financial decisions that indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which raise questions about h is 
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information. 
The SOR alleges that the Applicant is indebted to fifteen separate creditors, 
including two judgments, totaling approximately $23,856; and for delinquent consumer 
accounts that have been placed for collection. Applicant admits the allegations set forth 
in SOR 1.h., 1.i., 1.j., 1.k., 1.m., and 1.n. Applicant denies the de bts alleged in SOR 
1.a., 1.b., 1.c., 1.d., 1.e., 1.f., 1.g., 1.l., and 1.o. Credit reports of the Applicant dated 
November 28, 2023; and August 5, 2024 , confirm the indebtedness listed in the SOR . 
(Government Exhibits 4 and 5.) 
Applicant served on active duty in the U.S. Navy from January 1997 to June 
2017, when he was honorably discharge. 
Applicant completed a security clearance questionnaire dated November 8, 
2023. In response to a series of questions in Section 23 of the questionnaire 
concerning his financial history, Applicant denied having any delinquent debts. 
(Government Exhibit 3.) During his personal subject interview, Applicant was 
confronted by the investigator with the delinquent debts set forth below. Applicant 
generally denied knowledge about the debts and promised to look into them. Only the 
debts listed in 1.e., 1.g., and 1.h., he stated were resolved.  (Government Exhibit 8.) 
Applicant is responsible for presenting evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate admitted or proven facts. Applicant failed to respond to the FORM and 
therefore the record is void of any evidence in mitigation . There is nothing to explain 
why Applicant became excessively indebted in the first place, or what if anything he has 
done to resolve his debts. 
2 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following delinquent debts set forth in the SOR are of security concern: 
1.a.   A  delinquent debt  is owed  to  a  creditor for a  judgment  filed  against  him  in  2018,  in  
the  approximate  amount of $1,459.48.   Applicant  denied  the  debt and  contends that it  
was covid relieved.  He  offered  nothing  further in explanation  or documentation. During  
his subject  interview, he  denied  knowledge  of the  debt and  promised  to  look into  it.  
There is no evidence  to  show  that Applicant has  done  anything  to  resolve the  debt.   The  
debt remains owing.   (Government Exhibit 6.)  
1.b.   A  delinquent debt  is owed  to  a  creditor for a  judgment filed  against  him  in  2011, in  
the  approximate  amount of $797.  Applicant denied  the  debt and  contends that it  was  
covid relieved.   He  offered  nothing  further in  explanation  or documentation.   During  his 
subject  interview, he  denied  knowledge  of the  debt and  promised  to  look into  it.  There  
is no  evidence  to  show  that Applicant has done  anything  to  resolve the  debt.   The  debt  
remains owing.   (Government Exhibit 7.)  
1.c.   A  delinquent debt is owed  to  a  creditor for an  account placed  for collection  in the  
approximate  amount  of $4,983.   Applicant  denied  the  debt.   There is no  evidence  to  
show that  he  has done  anything  to  resolve the  debt.  The  debt remains owing.   
(Government Exhibits  4 and 5.)  
1.d.  A delinquent debt is owed to  a creditor for an account that was  placed  for collection  
in the  approximate  amount of $2,883.  Applicant denied  the  debt.   There is no  evidence  
to  show that he  has done  anything  to  resolve the  debt.   The  debt remains owing.   
(Government Exhibits  4 and 5.)  
1.e.  A delinquent debt is owed to  a creditor for an account that was  placed  for collection  
in the  approximate  amount of $2,771.  Applicant denied  the  debt.   There is no  evidence  
to  show that he  has done  anything  to  resolve the  debt.   The  debt remains owing.   
(Government Exhibits  4 and 5.)  
1.f.  A  delinquent debt  is owed  to  a  creditor for an  account placed  for collection  in the  
approximate  amount  of $2,199.   Applicant  denied  the  debt.   There is no  evidence  to  
show that  he  has done  anything  to  resolve the  debt.  The  debt remains owing.   
(Government Exhibits  4 and 5.)  
1.g.   A  delinquent  debt is owed  to  a  creditor  for an  account  placed  for collection  in  the  
approximate  amount of $2,197.  Applicant denied  the  debt and  contends that it was  
covid relieved.   He  offered  nothing  further in  explanation  or  documentation.   There is  no  
evidence  to  show that  he  has  done  anything  to  resolve  the  debt.   The  debt  remains  
owing.   (Government Exhibits 4  and 5.)  
1.h.   A  delinquent  debt is owed  to  a  creditor  for an  account  placed  for collection  in  the  
approximate  amount of $1,599.  Applicant admits the  debt.   There is no  evidence  to  
show that  he  has done  anything  to  resolve the  debt.  The  debt remains owing.   
(Government Exhibits  4 and 5.)  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
      
 
      
        
       
         
   
 
          
    
           
1.i.  A  delinquent debt  is owed  to  a  creditor for an  account placed  for collection  in  the  
approximate  amount of $887.  Applicant admits the  debt.   There is no  evidence  to  show  
that he  has done  anything  to  resolve the  debt.   The  debt remains owing.   (Government  
Exhibits 4 and 5.)  
1.j.  A  delinquent debt  is owed  to  a  creditor for an  account placed  for collection  in  the  
approximate  amount of $748.  Applicant admits the  debt.   There is no  evidence  to  show  
that he  has done  anything  to  resolve the  debt.   The  debt remains owing.   (Government  
Exhibits 4 and 5.)  
1.k.   A  delinquent debt is owed  to  a  creditor for an  account placed  for collection  in the  
approximate  amount of $648.  Applicant admits the  debt.   There is no  evidence  to  show  
that he  has done  anything  to  resolve the  debt.   The  debt remains owing.   (Government  
Exhibits 4 and 5.)  
1.l.  A  delinquent debt is owed  to  a  creditor for an  account that was placed  for collection  
in the  approximate  amount  of $509.   Applicant denies the  debt.   There is  no  evidence  to  
show that  he  has done  anything  to  resolve the  debt.  The  debt remains owing.   
(Government Exhibit 4.)  
1.m.  A  delinquent debt is owed  to  a  creditor for an  account placed  for collection  in the  
approximate  amount of $434.  Applicant admits the  debt.   There is no  evidence  to  show  
that he  has done  anything  to  resolve the  debt.   The  debt remains owing.   (Government  
Exhibit 5.)  
1.n.   A  delinquent  debt is owed  to  a  creditor  for an  account  placed  for collection  in  the  
approximate  amount of $299.  Applicant admits the  debt.   There is no  evidence  to  show  
that he  has done  anything  to  resolve the  debt.   The  debt remains owing.   (Government  
Exhibit 5.)  
1.o.  A delinquent debt is owed to  a creditor for an account that was placed  for collection  
in the  approximate  amount  of $1,443.  Applicant  denies  the  debt.   There  is no  evidence  
to  show that he  has done  anything  to  resolve the  debt.   The  debt remains owing.   
(Government Exhibit 4.)  
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The 
4 
 
 
 
      
      
        
            
 
 
      
    
       
           
        
 
 
       
       
       
     
            
  
 
           
   
  
              
      
       
        
  
 
          
               
       
   
 
 
 
 
       
 
     
   
            
   
      
          
administrative judge’s over arching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial , and 
commonsense decision. The entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number o f 
variables known as the whole-person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I 
have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical and based on the 
evidence contained in the record. Likewise, I have avoided drawing inferences 
grounded on mere speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, 
or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel .” The 
applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable clearance 
decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The g overnment 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to 
potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline F -  Financial Considerations  
The security concern for Financial Considerations is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
5 
 
 
 
     
    
    
        
       
  
 
 
    
    
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
         
           
 
  
        
    
 
 
   
 
               
         
      
     
       
  
 
 
 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
Affluence that cannot be explained by known sources of income is also a 
security concern insofar as it may result from criminal activity, including 
espionage. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. Three are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) inability to satisfy debts;   
(b) unwillingness to satisfy debts regardless of the ability to do so; and  
(c)  a history of not meeting financial obligations.  
Applicant has incurred delinquent debts total ing approximately $23,857. These 
accounts have been placed for collection. The evidence is sufficient to raise the above 
disqualifying conditions. 
The following m itigating conditions under the Financial Considerations guideline 
are potentially applicable under AG ¶ 20; 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or occurred  
under such  circumstances that it is unlikely to  recur and  does not cast  
doubt on   the  individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good   
judgment;  
(b)  the  conditions  that resulted  in the  financial problem  were largely  
beyond  the  person’s  control (e.g. loss   of employment, a   business  
downturn, unexpected  medical emergency, or a  death, divorce,  or  
separation), and  the  individual acted  responsibly under the  circumstances; 
and    
(d) the  individual initiated  and  is adhering  to  a  good-faith  effort to  repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.  
Applicant is delinquently indebted to each of the creditors set forth in the SOR. 
He has failed to provide any evidence to refute, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the 
security concerns arising from his delinquent debts. He gives no reasonable excuse for 
his excessive indebtedness, or why they remain delinquent. Applicant’s inaction for so 
long reflects a pattern of unreliability, untrustworthiness, and poor judgment. 
Accordingly, Applicant does not meet the requirements to access classified information. 
6 
 
 
 
 
          
      
         
    
 
 
       
   
  
 
       
      
     
 
 
 
      
 
 
     
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole -person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of  
rehabilitation  and  other permanent  behavioral changes;  (7) the  motivation  
for the  conduct;  (8) the  potential  for pressure, coercion,  exploitation, or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood  of continuation  or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2( c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a security 
clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
relevant facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I conclude App licant has not 
mitigated the Financial Considerations security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by ¶ E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  F:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a.  through 1.o. Against  Applicant  
7 
 
 
 
 
             
           
     
 
                                                
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue Applicant’s national 
security eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information 
is denied. 
Darlene Lokey Anderson 
Administrative Judge 
8 