 
 
 
 
 
               
 
                   
          
           
             
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
______________ 
_________
_____ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
"'L 09i~ .t!J~ 0 
"' ;:. "tr 
00 
"" 
 
In  the mat
ter  of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR Case No.24-01359  
  )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance  )  
 
 
Appearances  
For G
overnment: William Miller, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: John V. Berry, Esq. 
07/09/2025 
Decision 
FOREMAN, LeRoy F., Administrative Judge: 
This case involves security concerns raised under Guidelines D (Sexual Behavior) 
and E (Personal Conduct). Clearance is granted. 
Statement  of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA)  on December 21,  2023. 
On  August  30, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security  Agency (DCSA) sent  
him  a Statement  of Reasons (SOR) alleging security concerns  under Guidelines D  and 
E.  The DCSA acted  under  Executive Order (Exec.  Or.)  10865,  Safeguarding Classified  
Information within Industry  (February 20, 19 60), as amended ; Department of Defense  
(DOD)  Directive 5220.6,  Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review  
Program  (January 2, 1992),  as amended (Directive);  and the adjudicative guidelines (AG)  
promulgated in Security Executive Agent Directive 4,  National Security Adjudicative  
Guidelines  (December 10, 2016),  which became effective on June 8,  2017.  
1 
 
 
 
   
  
   
    
   
    
 
     
    
 
 
 
     
   
  
 
   
    
     
    
  
 
   
     
  
 
   
 
   
     
    
     
     
     
   
     
 
 
     
    
 
    
   
   
      
 
Applicant answered the SOR on September 12, 2024 , and requested a hearing 
before an administrative judge. Department Counsel was ready to proceed on December 
2, 2024. The case was assigned to me on April 2, 2025. On April 4, 2025, the Defense 
Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) notified Applicant that the hearing was scheduled 
to be conducted by video teleconference on June 2, 2025. I convened the hearing as 
scheduled. Government Exhibits 1 through 4 were admitted in evidence without objection. 
Applicant testified , presented the testimony of two witnesses, and submitted 
Applicant’s Exhibits A through J, which were admitted without objection. DOHA received 
the transcript on June 13, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegation in SOR ¶ 1.a and 
denied the allegation in SOR ¶ 2.a, which cross -alleges SOR ¶ 1.a. His admission is 
incorporated in my findings of fact. 
Applicant is a 26- year-old business analyst employed by a defense contractor 
since January 2024. He previously worked as an imagery analyst for another defense 
contractor from August 2022 until he was hired by his current employer. (Tr. 54) He 
earned a bachelor’s degree in May 2022. He lives with his parents, has never married, 
and has no children. He received a security clearance in August 2022. 
In September 2023, Applicant was visiting a dating website and met a woman 
online that he thought was pretty. He testified that he conversed with the woman for a 
couple hours before the conversation became intimately sexual. The sexual tone of the 
conversation did not raise any concerns, because he was familiar with “the hookup culture 
in general.” When he initiated a second call, the woman was naked, lying on a bed and 
masturbating. He removed his clothes and masturbated. He testified that the woman did 
not suggest that he masturbate. He intentionally exposed his genitals to show her that he 
was doing it. While he was still masturbating, he saw a message from the woman telling 
him that she had recorded the event , and she intended to post the video online and on 
social websites unless he paid her $5,000. He told her he did not have that much money, 
and she lowered the amount to $3,000. He sent her $2,000 in Bitcoin . The woman 
accepted the $2,000, but she told him that she would post the video unless he paid the 
final $1,000. About two or three hours after the incident, he borrowed $1,000 from a friend 
and sent it to her. (Tr. 91-99, 105) He repaid his friend within a few weeks. (Tr. 22, 61-62) 
The woman contacted him again in October 2023 and asked for another $5,000. 
Applicant refused to pay it, told his parents about the video and blackmail by the woman 
who had recorded the video, and reported it to the local police. (GX 4 at 9) 
Applicant blocked the woman from his email account, changed his password, and 
made his profile private . He has seen no indication that she posted any videos or 
photographs, and none of his friends have told him that they have seen anything related 
to his online sexual activity that was recorded by the woman. (Tr. 22, 61-65, 68-69) 
2 
 
 
 
 
      
      
     
 
   
   
    
   
     
     
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
   
      
      
     
   
    
   
     
    
    
     
 
  
    
     
    
  
 
 
   
 
 
       
    
  
   
 
 
Applicant had access to classified information at the time he engaged in sex ual 
activity on the internet. (Tr. 88) He had used dating sites previously during college and 
after he was employed by a federal contractor. However, he had not previously engaged 
in the sort of online sex that led to the extortion. (Tr. 88-91) 
Applicant did not report the incident to his security officer. However, when he was 
later interviewed in connection with his application for a top-secret clearance, he admitted 
the incident, because he knew that the investigator would search the police records and 
he wanted sh ow that he was ashamed of his conduct and was not concealing any 
derogatory information. After the woman made the second extortion attempt in October 
2023, he disclosed the incident to three close friends, his parents, his supervisor, and his 
girlfriend. (Tr. 75) He testified that he did not initially report the incident to his security 
officer because he was new to federal employment and did not know how derogatory 
incidents were handled. (Tr. 70-73) 
In addition to Applicant’s testimony at the hearing, he also submitted a sworn 
statement expressing remorse and promising to stop using dating applications and 
interacting with strangers online. He is now romantically involv ed with a woman he met 
while engaging in athletic activities. (AX A) 
Applicant’s mother is an office administrator employed by a church-related school 
for about ten years. She testified that when Applicant told her about the incident, she 
asked him why it happened, and he responded that he was “horny” at the time. (Tr. 35) 
She and her husband advised him to report the incident to the police and to protect his 
social media accounts and his bank account from any further illegal action. (Tr. 39) She 
testified that Applicant is very social, very religious, and has always been very open about 
his friends , social a ctivities, and use of dating applications. She believes that he has 
matured and learned from this experience. (Tr. 40-45) She submitted a statement 
describing him as resilient, responsible, trustworthy, God- fearing, and community 
minded. She states that he has learned his lesson and has taken significant and 
meaningful steps to avoid situations that could make him vulnerable to threats. (AX D) 
Applicant’s father submitted a statement describing him as “a source of immense 
pride and joy.” He states that Applicant is naturally warm -hearted and friendly, and that 
he has an “almost innocent trust in others.” He believes that Applicant “has demonstrated 
maturity and resilienc e and he has turned an otherwise embarrassing situation into a 
valuable life lesson.” (AX E) 
Applicant’s former supervisor submitted a statement describing Applicant as “a 
faithful teammate who we can always depend upon to get the job done. He vouches for 
Applicant’s integrity, reliability, and outstanding work ethic. (AX F) 
A close friend who has known Applicant since 2017 describes himself as a mentor 
and older brother figure for Applicant. Applicant came to him for advice after the extortion 
incident. He believes that Applicant was open and honest about his mistake and has 
grown significantly from the experience. He vouche d for Applicant’s reliability and 
integrity. (AX G) 
3 
 
 
 
   
      
     
      
 
  
   
 
  
 
   
 
      
     
  
 
 
      
   
  
     
    
  
      
 
 
   
   
    
   
      
    
 
     
  
  
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
    
   
  
 
A friend of Applicant who has known him for eight years and holds a top-secret 
clearance vouched for his reliability and integrity. Applicant told this friend about the 
extortion incident. He is confident that Applicant has taken his experience as a learning 
opportunity and is well qualified to hold a security clearance. (AX H) 
Another friend who has known Applicant for seven years admires him for his 
willingness to comfort and assist others in need. He considers him honest and resilient 
even when faced with challenges and setbacks. Like all of Applicant’s friends, he vouched 
for his reliability and integrity. (AX I) 
Applicant’s current girlfriend since January 2025 submitted a statement stating that 
she was taken aback when Applicant disclosed the extortion incident to her . She is 
confident that he made a one-time mistake. She has found that he is honest and kind and 
not the kind of person he was perceived to be as a result of the incident. She is confident 
that he will not engage in similar conduct again. (AX J) 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
decision. An a dministrative judge must consider all available and reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865 
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant 
has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have 
established for issuing a clearance. 
4 
 
 
 
   
   
 
    
   
  
   
 
   
   
  
 
   
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
    
 
 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan at 531. Substantial 
evidence is “such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to 
support a conclusion in light of all the contrary evidence in the same record.” See I SCR 
Case No. 17- 04166 at 3 (App. Bd. Mar. 21, 2019) . It is “less than the weight of the 
evidence, and the possibility of drawing two inconsistent conclusions from the evidence 
does not prevent [a Judge’s] finding from being supported by substantial evidence.” 
Consolo v. Federal Maritime Comm’n, 383 U.S. 607, 620 (1966). “Substantial evidence” 
is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. Washington Metro. Area 
Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines presume a nexus or 
rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria listed therein and 
an applicant’s security suitability. ISCR Case No. 15-01253 at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 20, 2016).  
Once the  G overnment establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial  
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive  ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of  proving a mitigating condition,  
and the burden of disproving it  never shifts to the  Government.  See  ISCR Case No.  02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep.  22,  2005).   
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent  
with the national interest to grant or continue  his security clearance.”  ISCR Case No.  01-
20700 at  3 (App. Bd.  Dec. 19, 2002).  “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  Egan  at 531.   
Analysis  
Guideline  D,  Sexual Behavior  
The concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 12: 
Sexual behavior that involves a criminal offense; reflects a lack of judgment 
or discretion; or may subject the individual to undue influence of coercion, 
exploitation, or duress. These issues, together or individually, may raise 
questions about an individual's judgment, reliability, trustworthiness, and 
ability to protect classified or sensitive information. Sexual behavior 
includes conduct occurring in person or via audio, visual, electronic, or 
written transmission. No adverse inference concerning the standards in this 
Guideline may be raised solely on the basis of the sexual orientation of the 
individual. 
Applicant’s admissions and the evidence submitted at the hearing establish the 
following disqualifying conditions under this guideline: 
AG ¶ 13(c): sexual behavior that causes an individual to be vulnerable to  
coer
cion, exploitation, or  duress;  and  
5 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
     
  
  
  
 
 
     
    
    
      
  
   
 
    
   
 
      
  
 
    
   
   
 
    
 
 
AG ¶ 13(d):  sexual behavior  of  a publ
 ic  nature or that reflects  lack of  
discretion or  judgment.  
The f
ollowing mitigating conditions are potentially applicable: 
AG ¶ 14(b): the sexual behavior  happen ed so long ago, so infrequently, or  
under such unusual circumstances, that it is  unlikely to recur and does not  
cast doubt on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or  
judgment;  
AG ¶ 14(c): the behavior no longer serves as a basis for coercion,  
expl
oitation, or  duress;  and  
AG ¶ 14(d): the sexual behavior is strictly private, consensual, and discreet.   
A
G ¶
 14(b) is established. The first prong of AG ¶ 14(a) focuses on whether the 
conduct was recent. There are no bright line rules for determining when is recent. The 
determination must be based on a careful evaluation of the totality of the evidence. If the 
evidence shows a significant period of time has passed without any evidence of 
misconduct, then an administrative judge must determine whether that period of time 
demonstrates changed circumstances or conduct sufficient to warrant a finding of reform 
or rehabilitation. See ISCR Case No. 02-24452 at 6 (App. Bd. Aug. 4, 2004). Almost two 
years have passed since Applicant’s online sexual encounter that was recorded, 
unbeknownst to him, and used to blackmail him . The repercussions of his conduct 
shocked and humiliated him. He is now romantically involved and no longer visits dating 
sites. I conclude that his conduct is not recent, was infrequent, occurred under unusual 
circumstances, and is unlikely to recur. 
AG ¶ 14(c) is established. Applicant has disclosed his conduct to his family, his 
friends, his employer, and his current girlfriend. 
AG ¶ 14(d) is not established. While Applicant’s conduct was arguably private and 
consensual, it was not discreet. 
Guideline E,  Personal Conduct  
SOR ¶ 2.a cross- alleges the Guideline D conduct under this guideline. The 
security concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 15: “ Conduct involving 
questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or unwillingness to comply with rules 
and regulations can raise questions about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and 
ability to protect classified or sensitive information. . . .” Applicant’s admissions and the 
evidence submitted at the hearing establish the following disqualifying condition under 
this guideline: 
AG ¶ 16 (e):  personal  conduct, or concealment of information about one's  
conduct, that creates  a  vulnerability to exploitation,  manipulation, or  duress  
by a foreign intelligence entity or other individual or group. Such conduct  
6 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
    
    
   
   
 
     
      
       
 
 
    
    
 
 
   
  
   
   
   
 
includes: . . :engaging in activities which, if known, could affect the person's 
personal, professional, or community standing. 
The following mitigating conditions are potentially applicable: 
AG ¶ 17 (c):  the offense is so minor, or so much time has  passe
 d,  or the  
behavior is so infrequent,  or it  happened under such unique circumstances  
that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast doubt on the individual's  
reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;  
AG ¶ 17 (d):  the i ndividual has acknowledged the behavior and obtained  
counsel
ing to change the be havior or taken other positive steps to alleviate  
the stressors, circumstances, or factors that  contributed to untrustworthy,  
unreliable, or  other inappropriate behavior, and such behavior is  unlikely to  
recur;  and  
AG ¶ 17(e): the individual has taken positive steps to reduce or eliminate  
vulner
ability to exploitation,  manipulation, or duress;   
AG ¶ 17(
c) is established. Private and consensual online sex is arguably “minor.” 
Applicant’s conduct occurred only once, was almost two years ago, and happened under 
unique circumstances making it unlikely to recur. He has learned from the experience, 
and it does not cast doubt on his current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment. 
AG ¶ 17(d) is established. Applicant has acknowledged his behavior. He has not 
sought or received counseling, but he has sought and received advice from his parents 
and friends. I am satisfied that his involvement in online sex with strangers is unlikely to 
recur. 
AG ¶ 17(e) is established. Applicant has disclosed his conduct to his parents, 
supervisor, the police, and his friends, including his current girlfriend. 
Whole-Person  Analysis  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant a security 
clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. An administrative judge must evaluate 
an applicant’s security eligibility by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct and 
all the relevant circumstances. An administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
7 
 
 
 
 
    
    
  
  
  
      
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
      
 
  
 
      
 
 
  
     
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.   
I have incorporated my comments under Guidelines D and E in my whole-person 
analysis and applied the adjudicative factors in AG ¶ 2(d). I have considered Applicant’s 
youth and inexperience at the time of his irresponsible conduct, his candor, and his 
remorse. After weighing the disqualifying and mitigating conditions under Guidelines  D 
and E, and evaluating all the evidence in the context of the whole person, I conclude 
Applicant has mitigated the security concerns raised by his sexual behavior and personal 
conduct. 
Formal Findings  
I make the following formal findings on the allegations in the SOR: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline D (Sexual Behavior):  FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraph 1.a:  For Applicant 
Paragraph 2, Guideline E (Personal Conduct):  FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraph 2.a:  For Applicant 
Conclusion  
I conclude that it is clearly consistent with the national security interests of the 
United States to continue Applicant ’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
Clearance is granted. 
LeRoy F. Foreman 
Administrative Judge 
8 