 
 
                                      
 
     
         
           
             
 
 
 
   
  
      
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
   
 
 
      
        
      
        
     
          
    
          
        
 
 
      
         
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00314 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Cassie L. Ford, Esquire, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
02/14/2025 
Decision 
GALES, Robert Robinson, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to mitigate the security concerns regarding drug involvement and 
substance misuse, and criminal conduct. Eligibility for a security clearance is denied. 
Statement of the  Case  
On July 10 , 2023, Applicant applied for a security clearance and submitted a 
Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86). On June 26, 2024, the Defense 
Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) Adjudication and Vetting Services 
(AVS) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) to him under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 
10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as 
amended and modified; Department of Defense ( DoD) Directive 5220.6, Defense 
Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended 
and modified (Directive); and Directive 4 of the Security Executive Agent (SEAD 4), 
National Security Adjudicative Guidelines (December 10, 2016) (AG), effective June 8, 
2017. 
The SOR alleged security concerns under Guideline H (Drug Involvement and 
Substance Misuse) and Guideline J (Criminal Conduct), and detailed reasons why the 
1 
 
 
                                      
 
           
        
          
 
 
            
           
    
         
         
           
       
           
        
             
 
           
        
       
         
         
  
 
 
       
        
       
           
              
         
      
          
   
 
 
      
      
         
           
   
 
     
            
DCSA adjudicators were unable to find that it is clearly consistent with the national interest 
to grant or continue a security clearance for Applicant. The SOR recommended referral 
to an administrative judge to determine w hether a clearance should be granted, 
continued, denied, or revoked. 
On July 3, 2024, Applicant responded to the SOR and elected to have h is case 
decided on the written record in lieu of a hearing . A complete copy of the Government’s 
file of relevant material (FORM) , including proposed Government Exhibits (GE ), was 
mailed to him by the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) on September 10, 
2024, and he was afforded an opportunity, within a period of 30 days, to file objections 
and submit material in refutation, extenuation, or mitigation. In addition to the FORM, he 
was furnished a copy of the Directive as well as the Adjudicative Guidelines applicable to 
his case. Applicant received the FORM on September 25, 2024. His response was due 
on October 25, 2024. As of November 9, 2024, no response had been received. The case 
was assigned to me on December 17, 2024, and there was still no response to the FORM. 
Findings of Fact  
In his Answer to t he SOR, Applicant , admitted with comments, one of the two 
factual allegations pertaining to drug involvement and substance misuse (SOR ¶ 1.a.), 
and one of the two factual allegations pertaining to criminal conduct (SOR ¶ 2.b.). 
Applicant’s admissions and comments are incorporated herein. After a complete and 
thorough review of the evidence in the record, and upon due consideration of same, I 
make the following findings of fact: 
Background  
Applicant is a 35-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been serving 
as a customer service representative since August 2023. A 2015 high school graduate, 
he enlisted in the U.S. Army in January 2016, and served on active duty until September 
2022, when, following a plea of guilty to an offense of wrongful use of cocaine in an Article 
15, Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), he was reduced in grade from staff sergeant 
(E-6) to sergeant (E-5), and received additional sanctions. He subsequently received a 
General Discharge under Honorable Conditions. He was granted a security clearance in 
2016. (Item 8 at 2) He was married in 2015. He has one child, born in 2017, and two 
stepchildren, born in 2008 and 2009. 
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse, and Criminal  Conduct  
On two separate occasions on January 26, 2022, and again on February 25, 2022, 
Applicant, at that time, while in a sensitive position, i.e., one requiring a security clearance 
as a tank commander with the U.S. Army , underwent urinalyses as part of unit sweeps. 
The test results for both tests were positive (107 ng/ML and 172 ng/ML, respectively with 
a cutoff level of 100 ng/ML) for cocaine. (Item 6 at 1-17) 
During a U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Division (CID) interview in April 2022, 
Applicant stated that he was unaware that he had used cocaine at a neighbor’s house 
2 
 
 
                                      
 
 
     
        
     
      
            
   
 
     
      
   
       
       
   
 
 
       
          
      
         
 
 
     
         
 
 
 
       
       
   
        
because  he  had  consumed  alcohol to  the  point of intoxication, claiming  he  was drunk. He  
indicated  that he  called  his neighbor after the  test results were  revealed  to  him  and  his  
neighbor acknowledged  that some  of his neighbor’s friends had  spread  cocaine  on  the  
table  on  both  occasions. Although  he  claimed  that he  was too  drunk to  know that he  was  
using  cocaine,  he acknowledged  that he  drove  himself home  both  times. He initially  
agreed  to  undergo  a  polygraph  examination, but one  week later he  changed  his mind  and  
declined to  do so.  (Item 6 at 6)  
As a result of testing positive for illegal drugs, Applicant was command-directed to 
attend the Army Substance Use Disorder Clinical Care (SUDCC) Program from April 2022 
until September 2022 . The record is silent regarding his attendance at individual and 
outpatient group therapy sessions or if he underwent additional urinalyses. While he 
claimed that he complied with the treatment, there is nothing in the case file to verify his 
claim. (Item 10 at 9) 
Applicant was charged with a violation of Article 112a , UCMJ (Wrongful Use of 
Cocaine – Detected By Urinalysis), and given non -judicial punishment under Article 15, 
UCMJ. He entered a plea of guilty to the charge, and on May 31, 2022, he was reduced 
in grade from E-6 to E-5, orally reprimanded, restricted, given extra duty, and ordered to 
forfeit money for two months (suspended for six months). (Item 7) He subsequently 
received a General Discharge under Honorable Conditions. 
In  his July  2023  SF 86,  at Sec. 23  –  Illegal Use  of Drugs or Drug  Activity, Applicant  
acknowledged  that, during  the  last  seven  years,  he  had  previously cocaine  –  a Schedule  
II  Controlled  Substance, one  time  in January  2022.  He  reported  that the  use  of  cocaine  
occurred  when he  had consumed  too many drinks  while with a  new group  of friends  one  
night  during  a  period  when  he  did  have  a  security clearance  and  he  was  not aware  that 
he  had  used  cocaine.  He commented  that he  was simply at the  wrong  place. (Item  5  at  
29-31; Item  10  at  6-7)  He did not  report that  there was  a  second  incident in  February 
2022.  
Applicant denied that he tested positive for cocaine in March 2022 by stating that 
the only positive tests were in January 2022 and February 2022, with no subsequent 
positive urinalyses after that. (Item 4 at 2) As noted by Department Counsel, the confusion 
stems from the reporting that refers to tests in January and February 2022, but with the 
results being reported in February and March 2022. 
As of the closing of the record, Applicant had not submitted a signed statement of 
intent to abstain from all drug involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that 
any future involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation of national security eligibility. 
Policies  
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion of the Executive 
Branch in regulating access to information pertaining to national security emphasizing, 
“no one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” (Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 
518, 528 (1988) ) As Commander in Chief, t he President has t he authority to control 
3 
 
 
                                      
 
        
      
      
        
          
     
     
     
      
    
         
 
 
       
        
         
     
    
       
           
 
 
  
 
 
          
        
       
          
         
      
          
 
  
         
   
   
          
        
      
     
      
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual 
is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information. T he President has 
authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant an applicant eligibility for 
access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly consistent with the 
national interest to do so.” (Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended and modified.) 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, t he 
administrative judge must consider t he guidelines in SEAD 4 . In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, t he guidelines list potentially disqualifying 
conditions and mitigating conditions, which are used in evaluating an applicant’s eligibility 
for access to classified information. 
An administrative judge need not view t he guidelines as inflexible, ironclad rules 
of law. Instead, acknowledging the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with t he factors listed in t he adjudicative process. T he 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
decision. The entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of several variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” T he administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable, and unfavorable, in making a 
meaningful decision. 
In  the  decision-making  process,  facts  must be  established  by “substantial   
evidence.”  “Substantial evidence  [is] such  relevant evidence  as a  reasonable mind  might  
accept  as adequate  to  support a  conclusion  in  light of all  contrary evidence  in the  record.”  
(ISCR  Case  No. 04-11463  at 2  (App. Bd.  Aug. 4,  2006) (citing  Directive ¶  E3.1.32.1)).  
“Substantial evidence”  is “more than  a  scintilla but less than  a  preponderance.”  (See  v.  
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth., 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th  Cir. 1994))  
The Government initially has t he burden of producing evidence to establish a 
potentially disqualifying condition under the Directive and has the burden of establishing 
controverted facts alleged in t he SOR. Once the Government has produced substantial 
evidence of a disqualifying condition, under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant has t he 
burden of persuasion to present evidence in refutation, explanation, extenuation, or 
mitigation, sufficient to overcome t he doubts raised by t he Government’s case. T he 
burden of disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to t he Government. (See ISCR 
Case No. 02-31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005)) 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters a fiduciary relationship 
with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship transcends 
normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours as well. It is because of this 
special relationship that t he Government must be able to repose a high degree of trust 
and confidence in those individuals to whom it grants access to classified information. 
Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of t he possible risk t he applicant may 
deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. Such decisions entail 
a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to potential, rat her than actual, 
4 
 
 
                                      
 
    
      
 
 
 
 
        
          
 
 
         
  
 
 
    
 
 
     
          
           
         
        
      
            
           
risk of compromise of classified information. Furt hermore, “security clearance 
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” (Egan, at 531) 
Clearance  decisions must be  “in  terms of the  national interest  and  shall  in no  sense  
be  a  determination  as  to  the  loyalty  of  the  applicant concerned.”  (See  Exec. Or. 10865 §  
7) Thus, nothing  in  this decision  should be  construed  to  suggest that I have  based  this  
decision, in whole or in part, on  any express  or implied  determination  as to  Applicant’s  
allegiance, loyalty, or patriotism. It is merely  an  indication  the  Applicant has or has not  
met  the  strict guidelines the  President and  the  Secretary of  Defense  have  established  for  
issuing  a  clearance.  In  reaching  this decision, I have  drawn  only those  conclusions that  
are reasonable, logical, and  based  on  the  evidence  contained  in the  record. Likewise,  I  
have  avoided  drawing inferences grounded on mere speculation  or conjecture.  
Analysis  
Guideline  H, Drug Involvement  and Substance  Misuse  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Drug Involvement and Substance 
Abuse is set out in AG ¶ 24: 
The  illegal use  of controlled  substances,  to  include  the  misuse  of  
prescription  and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances 
that  cause  physical or mental impairment  or are  used  in a  manner  
inconsistent with  their  intended  purpose  can  raise  questions about an  
individual's reliability and  trustworthiness, both  because  such  behavior may  
lead  to  physical or psychological impairment and  because  it raises  
questions about  a  person's ability or  willingness to  comply  with  laws,  rules,  
and  regulations. Controlled  substance  means  any "controlled  substance"  as  
defined  in 21  U.S.C. 802. Substance  misuse  is the  generic term  adopted  in  
this guideline  to  describe any of the behaviors listed above.  
The guideline notes several conditions under AG ¶ 25 that could raise security 
concerns in this case: 
(a) any substance  mis use (see above  definition);  and  
(f) any illegal drug use while granted access to classified information or 
holding a sensitive position. 
On two separate occasions in January 2022, and again in February 2022, while in 
a sensitive position, i.e., one requiring a security clearance, he underwent urinalyses as 
part of unit sweeps. The test results for both tests were positive for cocaine. During the 
CID investigation, he claimed he was unaware that he had used cocaine at a neighbor’s 
house because he was too drunk to know that he was using cocaine, but he 
acknowledged that on both occasions, he was not too drunk to drive himself home. After 
the test results were revealed to him, he said he approached his neighbor and learned 
that some of his neighbor’s friends had spread cocaine on the table on both occasions. 
5 
 
 
                                      
 
    
  
 
     
        
            
        
             
        
       
        
         
            
        
        
              
           
          
       
      
          
  
 
          
 
 
 
 
     
        
       
 
 
        
       
        
He accepted non -judicial punishment under Article 15, UCMJ , and was subsequently 
given a General Discharge under Honorable Conditions. 
A significant issue requires further discussion. When a positive urinalysis is proven, 
an applicant has the burden to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the security concerns 
arising from that positive test, or in this instance, two positive tests. A person who ingests 
an illegal substance without knowing the substance being ingested is present has not 
committed an offense. This is known as innocent ingestion . At its core, the innocent 
ingestion is based on an applicant’s credibility and the surrounding circumstances of the 
ingestion. The record must establish Applicant knowingly used cocaine for any 
disqualifying conditions to apply. When an applicant claims the positive drug tests were 
the result of innocent use or consumption, the key issue will likely be whether he 
presented sufficient evidence to prove that claim and thereby refute the pertinent SOR 
allegations. Such a determination may hinge on an assessment of an applicant’s 
credibility. In this instance, Applicant reported to CID that, on both occasions, he was too 
drunk to know he was using cocaine, but not too drunk to drive himself home. It is unclear 
if he raised that issue during his Article 15 proceeding. In addition, when completing his 
SF 86, he minimized his cocaine use by reporting only one of the two incidents. Based 
on a paucity of supporting evidence from his command or other character references, his 
minimized reporting of cocaine use, his non-judicial punishment, and his discharge from 
the service, I concluded that he failed to establish innocent ingestion. AG ¶¶ 25(a) and 
25(f) have been established. 
The guideline also includes examples of conditions under AG ¶ 26 that could 
mitigate security concerns arising from Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or happened  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur or does  not cast  doubt  
on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;   
(b) the  individual acknowledges his or her drug  involvement and  substance  
misuse,  provides evidence  of actions taken  to  overcome  this problem, and  
has established  a  pattern of  abstinence, including, but not limited  to: (1)  
disassociation  from  drug-using  associates and  contacts; (2) changing  or  
avoiding  the  environment where  drugs  were used;  and  (3) providing  a  
signed  statement of intent to  abstain from  all  drug  involvement and  
substance  misuse, acknowledging  that any future involvement or misuse  is 
grounds for revocation  of national security eligibility; and  
(d) satisfactory completion of a prescribed drug treatment program, 
including, but not limited to, rehabilitation and aftercare requirements, 
without recurrence of abuse, and a favorable prognosis by a duly qualified 
medical professional. 
AG ¶ 26(a) minimally applies , but neither of the other two mitigating conditions 
apply. Applicant’s excessive consumption of alcohol combined with his use of cocaine 
resulted in two positive drug tests for cocaine in January 2022, and again in February 
6 
 
 
                                      
 
           
           
       
      
 
 
         
          
        
            
          
 
 
 
 
      
     
    
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
         
          
           
     
                 
         
      
      
    
 
          
 
 
        
     
      
 
2022. While Applicant claimed that he had complied with the Army SUDCC Program, he 
offered no evidence of the satisfactory completion of the program. He has not submitted 
a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug involvement and substance misuse, 
acknowledging that any future involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation of national 
security eligibility. 
A person should not be held forever accountable for misconduct from the past. 
Continued abstinence is to be encouraged, but, when balanced against his history of drug 
use, the relatively brief period of purported abstinence is considered insufficient to 
conclude that the abstinence will continue. Applicant’s use of cocaine while in a sensitive 
position and possessing a security clearance, continues to cast doubt on h is current 
reliability, trustworthiness, and good judgment. 
Guideline J, Criminal Conduct 
The security concern relating to the guideline for Criminal Conduct is set out in AG 
¶ 30: Criminal activity creates doubt about a person's judgment, reliability, and 
trustworthiness. By its very nature, it calls into question a person's ability or willingness to 
comply with laws, rules, and regulations. 
The guideline notes t wo conditions under AG ¶ 31 that could raise security 
concerns: 
(b) evidence  (including, but not limited  to, a  credible  allegation, an  
admission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of  
whether the  individual was formally charged, prosecuted, or convicted; and  
(e) discharge  or dismissal from  the  Armed  Forces for reasons less than  
“Honorable.”   
My discussions related to Appellant’s drug involvement and substance misuse are 
adopted herein. As noted above, after twice testing positive for cocaine , Applicant was 
charged with a violation of Article 112a, UCMJ (Wrongful Use of Cocaine – Detected By 
Urinalysis), and given non-judicial punishment under Article 15, UCMJ. He entered a plea 
of guilty to the charge, and on May 31, 2022, he was reduced in g rade from E-6 to E-5, 
orally reprimanded, restricted, given extra duty, and ordered to forfeit money for two 
months (suspended for six months). He did not receive an Honorable Discharge but did 
subsequently receive a General Discharge under Honorable Conditions – one step lower 
than an Honorable Discharge. AG ¶¶ 31(b) and 31(e) have been established. 
The guideline also includes examples of conditions under AG ¶ 32 that could 
mitigate security concerns arising from Criminal Conduct: 
(a) so much time has elapsed since the criminal behavior happened, or it 
happened under such unusual circumstances, that it is unlikely to recur and 
does not cast doubt on the individual's reliability, trustworthiness, or good 
judgment; and 
7 
 
 
                                      
 
  
     
       
    
 
 
       
          
      
         
         
      
 
 
 
         
      
       
   
  
         
      
      
        
      
     
   
  
 
       
       
       
   
           
                 
  
        
        
           
     
         
          
        
             
        
(d) there is evidence of successful rehabilitation; including, but not limited 
to, the passage of time without recurrence of criminal activity, restitution, 
compliance with the terms of parole or probation, job training or higher 
education, good employment record, or constructive community 
involvement. 
AG ¶ 32(a) minimally applies, as his ingestion or consumption of cocaine last 
occurred in late February 2022 – three years ago. That period is relatively recent and 
considering Appellant’s apparent disinterest in submitting documentation in an effort to 
support mitigation, not enough time has passed to provide assurance that the criminal 
behavior will not recur. Moreove r, in the absence of SUDCC records, there was no 
verifiable treatment or counseling to assess the actual psychological nature of the 
behavior. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under t he whole-person concept, t he administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all t he circumstances. The administrative judge should consider t he nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at SEAD 4, App. A, ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Under SEAD 4, App. A, ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole -person concept. Moreover, I have 
evaluated the various aspects of this case considering the totality of the record evidence 
and have not merely performed a piecemeal analysis. (See U.S. v. Bottone , 365 F.2d 
389, 392 (2d Cir. 1966); See also ISCR Case No. 03-22861 at 2-3 (App. Bd. Jun. 2, 2006)) 
My comments associated with Applicant’s drug involvement and substance misuse 
and criminal conduct are incorporated herein. Applicant, a staff sergeant serving as a tank 
commander with the U.S. Army in a sensitive position, i .e., one requiring a security 
clearance, underwent urinalyses as part of unit sweeps , when he tested positive for 
cocaine on two separate occasions in 2022. He was disciplined for his substance abuse 
and discharged with a General Discharge under Honorable Conditions – one step below 
an Honorable Discharge. While he reported one such positive drug test in hi s SF 86, he 
failed to list the second such test . Other than relying on the passage of time without 
recurrence of his substance abuse and criminal activity, Applicant offered no evidence to 
8 
 
 
                                      
 
    
  
 
      
     
          
         
  
 
        
    
 
      
 
     
 
    
 
   
   
 
 
           
       
 
 
 
                                      
            
 
 
__________________________ 
support his abstinence, good employment record, constructive community involvement , 
or successful completion of drug counseling or therapy. 
Overall, the evidence leaves me with substantial questions and doubts as to 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance . For all these reasons, I 
conclude Applicant has failed to mitigate the security concerns arising from h is drug 
involvement and substance abuse, and criminal conduct . See SEAD 4, App. A, ¶ ¶ 2(d) 
(1) through AG 2(d) (9). 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  H: AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a.  and 1.b.:  Against Applicant 
Paragraph  2, Guideline  J:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  2.a.  and  2.b.:  Against Applicant 
Conclusion 
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance.  Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
ROBERT ROBINSON GALES 
Administrative Judge 
9 