 
 
  
 
  
  
           
      
       
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
          
                                                             
 
 
  
 
     
  
 
 
 
 
     
 
  
  
 
   
   
   
  
     
__________ 
__________ 
       DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
     DEFENSE  OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS  
In the matter of:  )  
 )  
                                                                      )      ISCR Case No. 24-01107  
  )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance  )  
Appearances  
For Government: George Hawkins, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
06/05/2025 
 
   Decision  
WE
SLEY, ROGER C. Administrative Judge 
Based upon a review of the case file, pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, Applicant 
did not mitigate financial consideration concerns. Eligibility for access to classified 
information or to hold a sensitive position is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On September 26, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
(DCSA) Consolidated Adjudications Services (CAS) issued a statement of reasons (SOR) 
to Applicant detailing reasons why under the financial considerations guideline the DCSA 
CAS could not make the preliminary affirmative determination of eligibility for granting a 
security clearance, and recommended referral to an administrative judge to determine 
whether a security clearance should be granted, continued, denied, or revoked. The 
action was taken under Executive O rder (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classifie d 
Information within Industry (February 20, 1960); Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 
5220.6 Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program, (January 2, 
1992) (Directive); and Security Executive Agent Directive 4, establishing in Appendix A 
the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to 
1 
 
 
 
  
 
    
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
    
  
   
   
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
 
 
  
  
  
    
 
 
Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position  (AGs), effective June 8,  
2017.    
Applicant responded to the SOR on October 11, 2024, and requested a hearing. 
This case was assigned to me on January 24, 2025.  A hearing was scheduled for April 
7, 2025, and was heard as scheduled. At the hearing, the Government’s case consisted 
of six exhibits. (GEs 1-6, which were received and admitted without objection. Applicant 
relied on one witness (himself) and six exhibits (AEs A -F), which were admitted without 
objection.  The transcript (Tr.) was received on April 23, 2024. 
Procedural Issues  
Before the close of the hearing, Applicant requested the record be kept open to 
permit him the opportunity to supplement the record with documentation of his federal 
and state tax payments. For good cause shown, Applicant was granted seven calendar 
days to supplement the record. Department Counsel was afforded one day to respond. 
Within the time permitted, Applicant supplemented the record with summaries of tax 
payments made to his states of residence. Applicant’s exhibits were received and 
admitted without objection as AEs G-I. 
Summary  of Pleadings  
Under Guideline F, Applicant allegedly is indebted to (a) the federal government  
for delinquent federal taxes owed for tax years 2013 through 2018 and 2021 in  
accumulated amounts  exceeding $97,000; (b) State A for delinquent  state taxes covered  
by tax liens for tax years 2016 and 2013, respectively, in amounts exceeding $8,000;  and  
(c) State B for  delinquent state taxes  owed in the amount of  $14,851.  
In Applicant’s response to the SOR, he admitted all but two of the alleged 
delinquent taxes owed with explanations and clarifications. He claimed his unpaid federal 
and state tax debts will be handled by a tax hardship center attorney. For the two alleged 
state tax debts that he denied (SOR ¶¶ 1.h and 1.i), he claimed  these tax debts have 
either been paid or are being paid through a payment plan. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 42-year-old civilian employee of a defense contractor who seeks a 
security clearance. Allegations covered in the SOR and admitted by Applicant are 
incorporated and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow. 
Background  
Applicant married in December 2009 and divorced in December 2012. (GE  1; Tr.  
37) He  has no children from this  marriage. He remarried in December 2020 and has two  
children from  this  marriage. (GE 1; Tr.  40) He earned a bachelor’s  degree in December  
2005 and a juris doctor degree in May  2009. (GE 1; Tr.  41)  Between January and May  
2 
 
 
                                                                                                                              
    
   
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
    
  
    
 
 
    
    
 
   
 
  
     
  
    
  
 
   
    
 
  
 
   
 
  
   
     
2021, he attended a theological seminary in his state of residence. Applicant did not report  
any military service.  
Since  March 2023, Applicant has worked for his current employer as a business 
analyst. (GE 1; Tr. 43) Previously, he worked for other employers in various job capacities. 
(GE 1; Tr. 43 -46) While he has held a public trust position before, he has never held  a 
security clearance. (GE 1; Tr. 46) Applicant is currently sponsored by his present 
employer. (GE 1; Tr. 47) 
Applicant’s finances   
Records document that Applicant accumulated delinquent federal tax debts for tax 
years 2013 through 2018 and 2021 as follows: (a) $11,904 for tax year 2013; (b) $11,428 
for tax year 2014; (c) $9,079 for tax year 2015; (d) $11,228 for tax year 2016; (e) $11,899 
for tax year 2017; (f) $6,854 for tax year 2018; and (g) $35,954 for tax year 2021. (GEs 
2-6) Total federal taxes owed for tax years 2013 through 2021 exceeded $97,000. (GEs 
2-6; Tr. 61-62) 
Applicant attributed his tax delinquencies to excessive exemptions claimed and 
(lack of attention to a change in his accounting status following his divorce. (GEs 5-6; Tr. 
48-50, 64) Despite his continued awareness of his accrued federal and state taxes owed, 
he still struggled  “to get caught up.” (GE 5) And, while he has benefitted from informal 
financial advice from a tax hardship counselor on the subject of addressing his taxes, he 
has never availed himself of any documented concentrated financial counseling program. 
(Tr. 50-51) 
Believing that his cryptocurrency investment returns would cover his owed back 
taxes, Applicant pulled out $300,000 from his cryptocurrency investment account in 2021 
to purchase a home. (GE 5; Tr. 65-66) Concerned about his owed federal taxes, Applicant 
enlisted financial advice from a tax hardship center in March 2024. (Tr. 62) 
Persuaded by a tax hardship  center counselor of the urgent need to address his 
federal tax debts, Applicant refinanced his home in March 2025 (seven months after the 
issuance of the SOR) and used the credited proceeds from his home refinance and 
earned federal tax refund to pay off his owed back federal taxes with one lump sum 
payment of $121,900. (AEs A -C; Tr. 36, 61 -62) Whether his reported federal tax 
payments covered his cited “large amount of profit from crypto currency” sales are not 
documented and remain unclear.” (GEs 2 and 5) Equally unclear are his mounted losses 
from his gambling in crypto currency. 
Tax records document Applicant’s  accumulation of delinquent state taxes with his 
respective states of residence. Records document state tax liens entered against 
Applicant in State A in 2023 in the respective amounts of $2,952 and $5,655. (GEs 2- 5) 
Earlier tax payments made to State A for tax years 2017 through 2022 are not in dispute. 
(GE 5) Records also document delinquent taxes owed by Applicant to State B in a total 
amount exceeding $14,851 for tax years 2020 through 2022. (GEs 2-5) Over 50 % of the 
state tax debts covered by SOR ¶¶ 1.h and 1.i were paid through involuntary garnishment 
3 
 
 
 
    
 
   
    
     
   
   
 
 
  
    
 
   
                  
      
 
 
    
   
   
     
  
   
      
 
 
  
  
   
    
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
undertaken by State A’s taxing authority, leaving a combined balance owing State A for  
the two years in issue   in the amount  of $4,547. (AE  E; Tr. 69-73)   
In July 2024 (two months before the issuance of the SOR and 14 months after 
completing his security clearance application (SCA), Applicant executed an installment 
agreement with State A, which calls for monthly payments of $115.00, beginning in 
August 2024. (AE D; Tr. 34) To date. Applicant has made nine monthly payments of $115 
to State A and is in full compliance with his agreed installment agreement’s terms. (AE H) 
He is in compliance as well with the terms of the installment agreement he executed with 
State B in January 2025. This installment agreement set monthly payment terms of $381. 
(AE I) 
Although Applicant is current with all of his other federal and state tax obligations, 
he remains in debt on the installment agreements he executed with State A and B. (Tr. 
36, 85-86)  He maintains an average savings account balance of between $10,000 and 
$12,000. (Tr. 82) 
Policies  
By virtue of the jurisprudential principles recognized by the U.S. Supreme Court in 
Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988), “no one has a ‘right’ to a 
security clearance.” As Commander in Chief, “the President has the authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual 
is sufficiently trustwo rthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. Eligibility for 
access to classified information may only be granted “upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.”  Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding Classified 
Information within Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The AGs list guidelines to be considered by judges in the decision-making process 
covering DOHA cases. These guidelines take into account factors that could create a 
potential conflict of interest for the individual applicant, as well as considerations that 
could affect the individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified 
information. 
These guidelines include conditions that could raise a security concern and may 
be disqualifying (disqualifying conditions), if any, and all of the conditions that could 
mitigate security concerns. These guidelines must be considered before deciding whether 
or not a security clearance should be granted, continued, or denied. Although, the 
4 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
    
 
 
   
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
    
   
  
 
 
 
     
    
 
                                               
guidelines do not require judges to place exclusive reliance on the enumerated  
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in the guidelines in arriving at a decision.  
In addi
tion to the relevant AGs, judges must take into account the pertinent 
considerations for assessing extenuation and mitigation set forth in ¶ 2(a) of the AGs, 
which are intended to assist the judges in reaching a fair and impartial, commonsense 
decision based on a careful consideration of the pertinent guidelines within the context of 
the whole person. The adjudicative process is designed to examine a sufficient period of 
an applicant’s life to enable predictive judgments to be made about whether the applicant 
is an acceptable security risk. 
When evaluating an applicant’s conduct, the relevant guidelines are considered 
together with the following ¶ 2(d) factors: (1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the 
conduct; (2) the circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the individual’s age and 
maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to which participation is voluntary; (6) 
the presence or absence of rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) 
the motivation of the conduct; (8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or 
duress; and (9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Viewing the issues raised and evidence as a whole, the following individual 
guidelines are pertinent: 
Financial Considerations  
The Concern: Failure or inability to live within one’s means, satisfy debts 
and meet financial obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of 
judgment, or unwillingness to abide by rules or regulations, all of which can 
raise questions about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness and ability 
to protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal acts or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds.  . . 
. AG ¶ 18. 
     Burdens  of P
 roof  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
The G
overnment reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. 
Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk the applicant 
may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. Such decisions 
entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation about potential, rather than 
actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Clearance decisions must be “in 
5 
 
 
 
     
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
       
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
terms  of the national interest  and shall in no sense be a determination as  to the loyalty of  
the applicant  concerned.”  Compare  Exec. Or. 10865 § 7 with the burden requirements of  
Exec. Or.  12968 (Aug.  2, 1995),  § 3.1 for personal  appearances cases.   
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the  
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from  
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden  of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR.  See  Egan, 484 U.S. at 531.   
“Substantial  evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.”   See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. ,  36 F.3d 375, 380 (4
th  Cir. 1994). The guideli nes  
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct  under any of the criteria  
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability.  See  ISCR Case No. 95 -0611 at 2  
(App. Bd. May 2,  1996).   
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial  
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶  E3.1.15. An applicant “has  the ultimate burden of  demonstrating that it  
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant  or continue his [or  her] security  
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01- 20700 at  3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002).  The burden of  
disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the Government.  See  ISCR Case No. 02-
31154 at  5 (App. Bd.  Sep. 22, 2005).  “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  Egan, 484 U.S. at 531;  see  AG ¶  2(b).    
A
nalysis  
Security concerns are raised over Applicant’s accumulation of delinquent federal 
and state taxes over the course of many years. His accrual of delinquent federal and state 
taxes raise trust, reliability, and judgment concerns about his current and future ability to 
manage his finances safely and responsibly. 
Financial concerns  
Applicant’s multiple tax-payment lapses warrant the application of three of the 
disqualifying conditions (DCs) of the financial consideration guidelines. DC ¶¶ 19(a), 
“inability to satisfy debts”; (c), “a history of not meeting financial obligations”; and 19(f), 
“failure to file or fraudulently filing annual Federal, state, or local income tax returns, or 
failure to pay annual Federal, state, or local income tax as required,” appliy to Applicant’s 
situation. 
Applicant’s admitted federal tax  delinquencies require no independent  proof to  
substantiate them.  See  Directive 5220.6 at E3.1.1.14;  McCormick  on Evidence  §  262 (6
th  
ed.  2006). His admitted tax-payment failures  are fully  documented and create judgment  
issues as well  over the  management of his finances.  See  ISCR Case No.  03-01059 (App.  
Bd. Sept. 24, 2004).  
F
inancial stability in a person cleared to protect classified information is required 
precisely to inspire trust and confidence in the holder of a security clearance that entitles 
6 
 
 
 
   
 
 
     
  
   
 
  
     
 
    
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
 
    
     
    
    
  
 
    
    
 
   
  
   
  
  
 
   
   
   
  
      
  
   
   
the person to access  classified information.  While the principal concern of a security  
clearance holder’s  demonstrated difficulties is vulnerability  to coercion and influence,  
judgment and trust concerns are implicit in cases involving delinquent debts.  
Historically, the timing of addressing and resolving tax payment delinquencies are 
critical to an assessment of an applicant’s trustworthiness, reliability, and good judgment 
in following rules and guidelines necessary for those seeking access to classifi ed 
information or to holding a sensitive position. See ISCR Case No. 14 -06808 at 3 (App. 
Bd. Nov. 23. 2016); ISCR Case No. 14-01894 at 5 (App. Bd. Aug. 18, 2015); ISCR Case 
No. 14-00221 at 2-5 (App. Bd. June 29, 2016). 
Based on Applicant’s considerable repayment efforts (mostly post-SOR issuance), 
Applicant may avail  himself of MC ¶ (20(g), “the individual has made arrangements with 
the appropriate tax authority to file or pay the amount owed and is in compliance with 
those arrangements.” Application of MC ¶¶ 20(c), “the individual has received or is 
receiving financial counseling for the problem from a legitimate and credible source, such 
as a non-profit credit counseling service, and there are clear indications that the problem 
is being resolved or is under control,” and 20(d), “the individual initiated and is adhering 
to a good- faith effort to repay overdue creditors or otherwise debts,” partially apply to 
Applicant’s situation. 
The Appeal Board has consistently imposed evidentiary burdens on applicants to 
provide documentation corroborating timely actions taken to resolve financial problems, 
whether the issues relate to back taxes, consumer, medical, or other debts and accounts. 
See ISCR Case No. 19-02593 at 4-5 (App. Bd. Oct. 18, 2021); ISCR Case No. 19-01599 
at 3 (App. Bd. Jan. 20, 2020). Timeliness in filing and satisfying federal and state tax 
obligations in accordance with established agency requirements are core considerations 
in assessing an applicant’s security clearance eligibility. 
Although Applicant has since addressed his back federal and state tax obligations 
with federal payoffs and compliant state repayment agreements, his repayment efforts 
come very late and are not accompanied by persuasive explanations of why he waited 
so lo ng to address his delinquent federal and state tax delinquencies. Considering 
Applicant’s legal training and acknowledged awareness of his tax payment 
responsibilities at all times relevant, his furnished explanations for his delays in 
addressing his tax debts are insufficient to satisfy his evidentiary burden. 
Whole-Person Assessment  
The w hole-person assessment of Applicant’s clearance eligibility requires 
consideration of whether her history of multiple years of accrued federal and state tax 
payment deficiencies is compatible with minimum standards for holding a security 
clearance. Applica nt to his credit has made considerable progress in addressing his 
delinquent federal and state tax delinquencies. His efforts have produced a payoff of his 
owed federal taxes for the tax years in issue  and state installment agreements that satisfy 
the compliance terms of his executed agreements. However, his payment efforts, while 
welcomed, come late in the process and fail to meet the timely tax payment requirements 
7 
 
 
 
  
   
    
    
 
     
 
    
    
   
     
 
 
  
          
 
 
 
                           
set by the Appeal Board. Overall trustworthiness, reliability, and good judgment have not  
been established.  
Based
 on a consideration of all of the facts and circumstances considered in this 
case, Applicant has failed to satisfy the timely requirements for meeting an applicant’s tax 
payment responsibilities. Without a record of timely satisfaction of his federal and state 
tax payment responsibilities, his  efforts, while encouraging, are insufficient at this time to 
facilitate safe predictions that he will be able to satisfy the required good- faith payment 
efforts in the future to address his federal and state taxes as they come due. 
I have carefully applied the law, as set forth in Department of Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 
518 (1988), Exec. Or. 10865, the Directive, and the AGs, to the facts and circumstances in 
the context of the whole person. I conclude financial considerations security concerns are 
not mitigated. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Guideline F (FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS): AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.
 j:     Against Applicant  
                         
                                                             
 Conclusion  
 
     
     
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
__________________________ 
In li
ght of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance.  Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Roger C. Wesley 
Administrative Judge 
8 