 
 
 
          
         
           
 
             
 
    
  
     
   
  
    
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
    
  
      
  
   
   
    
   
   
 
     
 
   
  
  
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
-z. O· i!:Z~ M 0 
"" >-"tr 
00 
"' 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-01801 
) 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Karen Moreno-Sayles, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Matthew Thomas, Esq. 
09/12/2025 
Decision 
FOREMAN, LeRoy F., Administrative Judge 
This case involves security concerns raised under Guidelines H (Drug Involvement 
and Substance Misuse) and F (Financial Considerations). Clearance is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on January 25, 2024. 
On December 31, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) 
sent him a Statement of Reasons (SOR) alleging security concerns under Guidelines H 
and F. The DCSA acted under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of 
Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance 
Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the adjudicative 
guidelines (AG) promulgated in Security Executive Agent Directive 4, National Security 
Adjudicative Guidelines (December 10, 2016), which became effective on June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR on January 13, 2025, and requested a hearing before 
an administrative judge. Department Counsel was ready to proceed on February 19, 
2025. The case was assigned to me on June 28, 2025. On July 8, 2025, the Defense 
Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) notified Applicant that the hearing was scheduled 
to be conducted by video teleconference on August 15, 2025. I convened the hearing as 
scheduled. Government Exhibits (GX) 1 through 3 were admitted in evidence without 
1 
 
 
 
  
   
 
    
 
  
   
   
 
 
   
  
 
    
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
     
   
 
 
     
   
    
   
  
objection. Department Counsel requested that I take administrative notice of the facts 
recited in a drug fact sheet from the Department of Justice Drug Enforcement 
Administration, which is attached to the record as GX 4. I took administrative notice as 
requested, without objection from Applicant. Department Counsel moved to correct SOR 
¶ 2.f by changing the name of the alleged creditor. I granted the motion, without objection 
by Applicant. (Tr. 9) Applicant testified and submitted Applicant’s Exhibits A through M, 
which were admitted without objection. The record closed upon adjournment of the 
hearing. DOHA received the transcript on August 29, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted all the allegations in the SOR. His 
admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact. 
Applicant is a 38-year-old production engineer who has been offered employment 
by a defense contractor, contingent on his receiving a security clearance. (AX L) He 
graduated from high school in 2005. He was accepted by a university but chose to work 
at various jobs that did not require a college degree or a security clearance. In 2008, he 
was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis. His left arm and leg and the left side of his face 
were paralyzed. He was determined to recover, and he became strong enough to run a 
marathon in 2012. (Tr. 19) 
Applicant has never  married, but  he has  a son who was  born in April 2010. He  
attended a c ommunity  college f rom 2010 to 2012 and r eceived a n associate degree i n  
August 2012. He received a bachelor’s degree in May  2017 and began working for  a  
company that  made therapeutic proteins for cancer patents. He considered his employer  
a “great company,” but it was too far from where his son lived,  and so he quit this job.  In  
February 2018, he began working f  or a company  that made purified chemicals  for  
semiconductor chips.  This was his first job as an engineer. In June 2019,  he tested  
positive for marijuana after a random drug test. His employer gave him a “second chance,”  
and he was  not terminated. (GX 2 at 20) At the hearing,  he testified that his  marijuana  
use halted after this incident and he did not resume his use until the end of 2020. (Tr. 36- 
37)  
Applicant changed jobs in November 2019, in order to be closer to his son, and he 
began working as a plant engineer for a company that processed fruits and vegetables 
into purees and juices. He admitted that he used marijuana during this period of 
employment, knowing that it was contrary to the company’s policy about marijuana use. 
(Tr. 47) He left this job in August 2023 and was hired by his current employer in January 
2024. (Tr. 20- 24) However, he could not begin working, because he has never held a 
security clearance. 
When Applicant submitted his SCA in January 2024, he disclosed that he first used 
marijuana in July 2003, while in high school, and he most recently used it in December 
2023. Regarding his frequency of use, he stated that he used it daily at different times. 
He also disclosed that he used hallucinogenic mushrooms about five times between June 
2008 and August 2023. He obtained mushrooms from a childhood friend with whom he 
2 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
  
   
 
   
  
   
 
 
   
     
   
 
 
  
   
 
  
   
   
   
 
     
   
 
   
       
   
  
  
 
  
   
   
  
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
   
 
no longer has any contact. (Tr. 31- 32) In his SCA, he declared that he did not intend to 
use marijuana or mushrooms again. (GX 1 at 33) 
During a security interview in April 2024, Applicant told the investigator that he did 
not use marijuana between December 2023 to February 2024, but that he had resumed 
using it three or four times a week. (GX 2 at 5) In his response to DOHA interrogatories 
in November 2024, he stated that he last used mushrooms in August 2023 and marijuana 
in September 2024. (GX 2 at 16). He also stated that he was living with the mother of his 
son, who uses marijuana daily, but that he intended to move out and live elsewhere. (GX 
2 at 18) At the hearing, he testified that he was living with his son’s grandmother (the 
mother of his son’s marijuana-using mother) until he could save up enough money to live 
alone. (Tr. 41) 
Applicant testified that his marijuana use “picked up” when it was legalized in his 
state of residence. (Tr. 35) He testified that he did not understand the difference between 
state and federal law regarding use of marijuana until he applied for a security clearance. 
(Tr. 38) 
At the hearing, Applicant submitted a declaration of intent to never use illegal drugs 
in the future, acknowledging that any intentional violation of his statement of intent will 
result in automatic revocation of any suitability determination, fitness determination, or 
security clearance. (AX A) He also submitted a laboratory report of a negative hair follicle 
test for amphetamines, cocaine marijuana, methamphetamines, opiates, and 
phencyclidine on June 6, 2025; and a certificate of completion of a drug and alcohol 
awareness class on August 7, 2025. (AX B; AX C) 
The SOR alleges six delinquent debts reflected in a credit report from November 
11, 2024 (GX 3) The evidence concerning these debts is summarized below. 
SOR ¶ 2.a: credit union account charged off for $180. Applicant incurred this 
debt when a credit union gave him $200 for opening a checking account in March 2018. 
The credit union later demanded that he return the $200 because he did not open a 
checking account. (Tr. 26-27) He submitted documentary evidence that the debt was paid 
in full on June 23, 2025, after he received the SOR. (AX D) 
SOR ¶ 2.b: debt to a university referred for collection of $10,985. This debt 
was a student loan. Applicant submitted a letter from the university stating that the debt 
was paid in full on February 8, 2021, and that the information on a credit report reflecting 
the debt was erroneous. (AX E) The debt was paid with a debt -consolidation loan that is 
now in forbearance until August 2026. (Tr. 28) 
SOR ¶ 2.c: debt to an insurance company referred for collection of $59. At 
the hearing, Applicant submitted an undated document from the collection agency 
reflecting that the debt was paid full. (AX F) This debt was incurred when Applicant 
changed automobile insurers and was charged a fee for the transfer. (Tr. 28-29) 
SOR ¶ 2.d: debt to an insurance company referred for collection of $78 . 
Applicant submitted an undated document from the collection agency reflecting that the 
3 
 
 
 
    
 
 
  
   
   
    
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
       
  
  
   
    
  
     
debt was paid in full. (AX G) This debt also is a fee for a change of automobile insurance. 
(Tr. 28-29) 
SOR ¶ 2.e: telecommunications account referred for collection of $983. 
Applicant submitted a letter from a collection agency reflecting his agreement to pay $150 
per month by direct debit for five months beginning on August 1, 2025, and a final 
payment of $154 on January 2, 2026. (AX H) This debt was incurred when Applicant 
changed cellphone service providers without closing the previous account. (Tr. 29) The 
first payment was scheduled to occur two weeks before the hearing, but Applicant 
submitted no evidence that it actually occurred. 
SOR ¶ 2.f: telecommunications account referred for collection of $953. 
Applicant submitted documentation of a payment of $104 on August 16, 2025. (AX I) This 
debt was incurred when Applicant changed internet and cable service providers without 
closing the previous accounts. (Tr. 30) 
At the hearing,  Applicant presented letters from 16 individuals attesting to his good  
character.  His mother, father,  sister,  brother, uncle,  and t he mother and gr andmother of  
his son submitted letters attesting to his strong character and devotion to his son. (AX J- 
1 through J -8) A high school friend attests  to his loyalty,  hard work, and community  
involvement. (AX J -9) His former employer,  who gave him the second chance after he  
violated company  policy by using marijuana,  attests  to his hard work, honesty, diligence,  
and devotion to his son. (AX J-10) A former  coworker attests to his integrity, loyalty,  and  
calm leadership style.  (AX J-11) Applicant’s  son’s teacher  attests to his devotion to his  
son, strong character,  and deep sense of responsibility. (AX J -12) A coworker attests to  
his intelligence, communication skills, and leadership. (AX J-13) His pastor attests  to his  
character, consistency, reliability, and willingness  to serve others.  (AX J -14) His high  
school basketball and  soccer coach, with whom he  has maintained  contact,  attests  to his  
strong character as a  person who “straps  up his boots”  and  meets  challenges head-on.  
(AX J-15) The president and director of a non- profit youth basketball organization has  
become a close friend of  Applicant and admires  him for his involvement in the  
organization and a volunteer coach. He describes him as an “honest and dependable  
individual who stands firmly by his values.” (AX J-16)  
Applicant testified that his family members who wrote statements about his 
character were aware of his marijuana use. However, several of the others, such as his 
son’s teachers and the president of the non-profit youth basketball organization were not 
aware of it. (Tr. 53) 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2. 
4 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
    
 
   
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
    
    
    
  
    
  
    
  
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
decision. An administrative judge must consider all available and reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865 
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant 
has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have 
established for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Egan at 531. Substantial evidence is 
“such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to support a 
conclusion in light of all the contrary evidence in the same record.” See ISCR Case No. 
17-04166 at 3 (App. Bd. Mar. 21, 2019). It is “less than the weight of the evidence, and 
the possibility of drawing two inconsistent conclusions from the evidence does not prevent 
[a Judge’s] finding from being supported by substantial evidence.” Consolo v. Federal 
Maritime Comm’n, 383 U.S. 607, 620 (1966). “Substantial evidence” is “more than a 
scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth., 36 
F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines presume a nexus or rational connection 
between proven conduct under any of the criteria listed therein and an applicant’s security 
suitability. ISCR Case No. 15-01253 at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 20, 2016). 
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial  
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the  
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of  proving a mitigating condition,  
and the burden of disproving it  never shifts to the Government.  See  ISCR Case No.  02- 
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep.  22,  2005).  
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent  
with the national interest to grant or continue  his security clearance.” ISCR Case No.  01- 
20700 at  3 (App. Bd.  Dec. 19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  Egan  at 531.  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis  
Guideline H (Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse)  
The concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any “controlled substance” as 
defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in 
this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
Applicant’s admissions and the evidence submitted at the hearing establish the 
following disqualifying conditions under this guideline: 
AG  ¶ 25(a): any  substance misuse (see above definition);  
AG
 ¶  25(b): tes ting positive for an illegal  drug;  and  
AG ¶ 25(c):  illegal possession of  a cont rolled substance, including  
cultivation,  processing, manufacture,  purchase, sale, or distribution; or  
possession of drug  paraphernalia.  
The fol
lowing mitigating conditions are potentially applicable: 
AG ¶ 26(a):  the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or  
happened 
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or does not  
cast doubt  on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  
judgment;  
AG ¶ 26(b):  the individual  acknow ledges his  or her drug involvement  and  
substance misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this  
problem, and has established a p  attern of abstinence,  including, but  not  
limited to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-usin g associates and contacts;  
(2) changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were  
used;  and  
(
3) providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all  
drug  inv
olvement  and  substance misuse, acknowledging that  
6 
 
 
 
 
       
   
 
  
   
    
 
    
  
   
   
 
  
 
  
  
    
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
    
    
   
  
   
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
any future  involvement or misuse is grounds  for revocation of  
national security  eligibility.  
AG ¶ 26(a) is not established. Applicant has acknowledged his drug involvement 
and submitted evidence that he completed a drug and alcohol awareness class in August 
2025, and tested negative for marijuana and several other controlled substances in June 
2025. Both of these events were after he received the SOR in December 2024 and knew 
that his recent employment offer was in jeopardy. His drug involvement is recent, has 
been frequent, and did not occur under circumstances making recurrence unlikely. 
AG ¶ 26(b) is not established. Applicant has provided a signed statement of intent, 
but he continues to associate with drug users, including the mother of his son, who uses 
marijuana daily. It is not clear whether he continues to associate with the childhood friend 
who gave him mushrooms. He has not changed the environment where he has used 
drugs. He has repeatedly promised to refrain from using marijuana and then broken that 
promise. He used marijuana in June 2019, knowing that he was violating his employer’s 
policy against marijuana use. He used marijuana again in 2020, knowing that he was 
violating his employer’s policy. He used it again in September 2024 after submitting an 
SCA in January 2024. His record of broken promises undermines the probative value of 
the statement of intent submitted at his hearing. 
Guideline F, Financial Considerations  
The security concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one’s means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. . . . An individual who is financially 
overextended is at greater risk of having to engage in illegal or otherwise 
questionable acts to generate funds. . . . 
This concern is broader than the possibility that a person might knowingly 
compromise classified information to raise money. It encompasses concerns about a 
person’s self-control, judgment, and other qualities essential to protecting classified 
information. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible, 
unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding classified information. See ISCR 
Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012). 
Applicant’s admissions and the evidence submitted at the hearing establishes the 
following disqualifying conditions: 
AG ¶  19(a): inability to  sat
 isfy debts; and  
AG ¶  19(c): a history of not meeting financial  obli gations.  
The f
ollowing mitigating conditions are potentially applicable: 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
  
  
      
 
    
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
AG ¶ 20(a):  the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or  
occ
urred under such circumstances that it is  unlikely to recur and does not  
cast doubt  on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  
judgment;  
AG ¶  20(b):  the conditions that resulted in the financial  problem were largely  
beyond the person's control (e.g., loss  of employment, a business   
downturn, unexpected medical  emergency,  a death, divorce or  separation,  
clear victimization by  predatory lending practices,  or identity theft), and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
A
G ¶ 20(c): the individual  has r eceived or is  receiving financial counseling  
for the problem from a  legitimate and credible source, such as  a non-profit  
credit counseling service, and there are clear indications that the problem  
is being resolved or is  under control;  
AG ¶ 20(d): the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- fai th effort to  
repay overdue creditors or otherwise resolve  debts; and  
AG ¶ 20(e): the individual has a reasonable basis to dispute the legitimacy  
of  the pas
t-due debt  which is the cause of the problem and provides  
documented proof to  substantiate the basis of the dispute or provides  
evidence of actions to resolve the issue.  
AG ¶
¶ 20(a) and 20(b) are not established. Applicant’s delinquent debts are recent, 
were frequent, and were not incurred under circumstances making them unlikely to recur 
or circumstances that were largely beyond his control. They were incurred because 
Applicant did not pay attention to his financial obligations or the consequences of making 
changes in the providers of various services. The debts that were established at the 
hearing are for relatively small amounts, but they are significant because they show a 
pattern of failing to pay attention to his financial obligations. 
AG ¶ 20(c) is not established. Applicant provided no evidence of financial 
counseling. He testified that he is relying on his own research to learn how to better 
manage his finances. 
AG ¶  20(d) is not established.  Applicant  did not take steps  to resolve any of the  
debts  alleged in the SOR until he learned that they were impediments to obtaining a  
security clearance. Payments under pressure of obtaining a security clearance are not  
“good faith efforts.” The timing of the resolution of financial problems is an important factor  
in evaluating an applicant’s case for  mitigation because an applicant who begins to  
resolve financial  problems only after  being placed on notice that  his or her clearance was  
in jeopardy  may lack the judgment  and self-discipline to follow rules  and regulations  over  
time or when there is no immediate threat to his or her  own interests. ISCR Case No.  15-
06440 at 4 (App. Bd. Dec. 26, 2017).  
8 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
    
  
 
   
 
    
    
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
     
 
     
 
     
 
 
AG ¶ 20(e) is established for the student loan alleged in SOR ¶ 2.b. It is not 
established for the other debts alleged in the SOR, because Applicant did not dispute 
them. 
Whole-Person Analysis  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant a security 
clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. An administrative judge must evaluate 
an applicant’s security eligibility by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct and 
all the relevant circumstances. An administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other  permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for  pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
I have incorporated my comments under Guidelines H and F in my whole- person 
analysis and applied the adjudicative factors in AG ¶ 2(d). Applicant was candid and 
sincere at the hearing. His devotion to his son is impressive. However, he has not 
overcome the concerns raised by his irresponsible conduct. After weighing the 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions under those guidelines and evaluating all the 
evidence in the context of the whole person, I conclude Applicant has not mitigated the 
security concerns raised by his drug involvement and delinquent debts. 
Formal Findings  
I make the following formal findings on the allegations in the SOR: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline H (Drug Involvement and  
  Substance Misuse):     AGAINST APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.
 c:  Against Applicant  
Paragraph 2, Guideline F (Financial Considerations):  AGAI
NST APPLICANT  
Subparagraph 2.a:   Against Applicant  
Subparagraph 2.b:   For Applicant  
Subparagraphs 2.c-2.f:  Against Applicant  
9 
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
____________________ 
Conclusion  
I conclude that it is not clearly consistent with the national security interests of the 
United States to grant Applicant eligibility for access to classified information. Clearance 
is denied. 
LeRoy F. Foreman 
Administrative Judge 
10 