 
 
  
 
  
        
         
           
             
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
     
 
  
  
   
   
   
    
  
     
  
    
 
    
      
     
   
 
___________ 
___________ 
DEPAR
TMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of:  )  
 )  
                )   ISCR Case No. 24-01576  
  )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance   )  
 
Appearances  
For Government: Carroll J. Connelley, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
07/28/2025 
Decision 
PRICE, Eric, Administrative Judge: 
Security concerns arising under Guideline H ( drug involvement and substance 
misuse) are not mitigated. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on August 23, 2023. 
On October 17, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) sent 
her a Statement of Reasons (SOR) alleging security concerns under Guideline H. The 
DCSA acted under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified 
Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of Defense 
(DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) 
promulgated in Security Executive Agent Directive 4, National Security Adjudicative 
Guidelines (December 10, 2016), which became effective on June 8, 2017. 
On October 31, 2024, Applicant responded to the SOR and requested a hearing. 
(Answer) On April 1, 2025, the case was assigned to me. On May 30, 2025, the Defense 
Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a notice scheduling the hearing for June 
18, 2025. The hearing was held as scheduled. 
 
 
   
      
     
   
      
          
 
 
     
    
 
      
    
    
    
    
      
      
 
   
   
   
 
 
     
     
       
  
 
   
   
  
 
 
  
   
 
    
    
  
  
     
 
 
Department Counsel offered Government Exhibit (GE) 1 through GE 3, which were 
admitted without objection. ( Transcript (Tr.) 14 -21; Hearing Exhibit (HE) I) Applicant 
testified but offered no documentary evidence. The record was held open to permit 
Applicant to submit documentary evidence and she timely submitted Applicant Exhibit 
(AE) A through AE I, which were admitted without objection. (HE II) The record closed on 
July 7, 2025. (HE III) On July 21, 2025, DOHA received the transcript of the hearing. 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s SOR response, she admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b, 
with explanations. Her admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact. 
Applicant is 61 years old and has been offered employment by a federal contractor 
contingent upon obtaining a security clearance. She served in the Navy from 1995 to 
2017 and honorably retired as a chief petty officer ( E-7). She has had no other 
employment since retiring from the Navy. She has a 100% service-connected disability 
as determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and also receives social 
security disability benefits. She had a security clearance from about 2007 until 2017. (GE 
1; Tr. 23-29, 56, 79-81; AE C) 
Applicant was married from 1996 to 2003 and has three adult -age children. She 
received a bachelor’s degree in 2002 and has earned additional college credits and 
certifications. (GE 1; Tr. 24, 55-56, 81-82; AE F) 
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
The SOR alleges Applicant used tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) with varying 
frequency from about June 2023 until at least January 2024, and that she intends to use 
THC in the future. (SOR ¶¶ 1.a -1b; SOR response) She admitted both allegations and 
explained: 
I understand the definitions of abuse and misuse of prescription and 
controlled substances as outlined in 21 U.S.C. § 802, as well as distinctions 
between federal and state mandat es on this matter. Yes, I did make 
purchases, but these were made less frequently than every two months, as 
I use medications strictly according to my doctor’s instructions and only as 
needed, rather than on a daily basis as is typical with traditional 
medications. I deny abuse…. 
[I] do not use flower or weed. Due to my pulmonary issues, smoking would 
exacerbate my condition… The mints, gummies, oils, and Theragels I use 
for anxiety, depression, and insomnia are significantly more effective than 
traditional medications. They help me stay focused without causing 
drowsiness or mental fog, and I experience fewer extreme highs and lows 
compared to traditional medication. 
2 
 
 
 
 
    
     
 
  
  
 
      
   
   
  
   
 
     
  
      
   
   
      
     
 
    
    
       
   
     
           
 
    
    
 
    
      
  
 
    
        
    
  
     
   
    
  
    
     
Finally, I self-reported my use of THC products purchased at state-licensed 
and approved facilities. I did not use these products before obtaining my 
license last year, and I have informed both my primary care and specialty 
doctors about my usage. This information has not been kept private, 
ensuring that my use of THC products cannot be used against me in relation 
to any information or access associated with a security clearance….I 
respectfully request that you carefully consider issuing my security 
clearance so that I may begin my work duties. (SOR Response) 
In her August 2023 SCA, Applicant denied illegally using or purchasing any drugs 
or controlled substances in the last seven years or ever illegally using or being involved 
with controlled substances while possessing a security clearance. (GE 1 at 31-32) The 
sentence in the SCA immediately preceding questions about the illegal use of drugs or 
controlled substances states: “The following questions pertain to the illegal use of drugs 
or controlled substances or drug or controlled substance activity in accordance with 
Federal laws, even though permissible under state laws.” (GE 1 at 31) She did not list 
THC usage in her August 2023 SCA because she did not realize medical use of THC was 
prohibited under federal law. She acknowledged that, while in the Navy, she was aware 
marijuana was prohibited for personal use and said she had not paid attention to the 
legality of medical marijuana. She stated she had been forthright , thought she had 
disclosed her therapeutic use of THC in her SCA, and expected a security background 
investigation to discover she had a medical marijuana license. (GE 3 at 4; Tr. 45-46) 
During an October 23, 2023 subject interview (S/I) with a government investigator, 
Applicant disclosed she was prescribed a medical marijuana card by a medical doctor ; 
used THC products daily since June 2023, and purchased THC, cannabidiol (CBD) and 
gummies from a marijuana dispensary . She vapes with THC at night and takes THC 
capsules. She was prescribed THC products as an alternative to medications that caused 
her significant adverse reactions detrimental to her health. (GE 3 at 4) 
In her March 7, 2024 response to interrogatories, Applicant reported using tincture 
of THC, THC gummies and a THC gel daily, as needed. She indicated she last used them 
in January 2024, and that they help keep her focused, help with her significant anxiety , 
and do not have the side effects of other prescriptions . She indicated the products were 
lawful under state law in State A and that she purchased them from a dispensary. She 
stated she stopped using them as “a test to see how I would respond,” and then indicated 
she intended to “illegally use drugs or controlled substances in the future.” (GE 2) S he 
acknowledged that her marijuana use remains illegal under federal law and that any future 
use may affect her security clearance eligibility. She expressed her hope that she would 
be allowed to continue to use THC for therapeutic purposes. (GE 2 at 10) 
Applicant testified that she first started using THC products to help with anxiety, 
insomnia and post -traumatic stress disorder ( PTSD) attributable to events from her 
childhood through her military service. From 2016 to 2023 she was seen by various 
counselors and prescribed various medications. Although the medications sometimes 
helped with symptoms , the side effects impacted her ability to properly support her 
children, including two with a significant, chronic blood disorder. From about 2021 through 
3 
 
 
    
    
    
  
    
   
 
     
     
      
     
      
     
  
  
  
    
    
  
     
    
    
 
       
    
   
  
     
 
  
     
         
 
 
   
       
   
  
    
  
  
     
   
     
 
2024, she had a wonderful relationship with her treating psychologist, but the VA did not 
renew her referral for private counseling. The VA approved group counseling instead, but 
she is not comfortable in that setting. She has been prescribed Duloxetine (mood, anxiety, 
and pain) and Trazadone (insomnia), but sometimes felt sick, bloated, and gained weight 
with those medications. She had also been prescribed other medications at various times 
but could not recall the names. (Tr. 29-41, 76-80) 
Applicant has reduced her THC intake. She no longer takes THC products daily 
because of the security clearance process and has tried to see “if [she] could go without 
it” but has had “some really hard days.” (Tr. 38) She last ingested a few drops of tincture 
of THC in May 2025 to assist with pain, relaxation and to help her sleep. She has 
continued to consume THC gummies including two days prior to her hearing. She has 
also used a cannabis or THC infused ointment or oil for pain, but it is unclear when she 
last used it. (Tr. 37-45) After the hearing she submitted evidence that Quickies chews are 
infused with THC. (AE A) She submitted evidence that Transdermal Gel 1oz includes a 
“1:1 ratio of full spectrum THC to CBD.” (AE B) 
Applicant was asked why she continues to use THC products after acknowledging 
future use could affect her security clearance eligibility and after she was aware that THC 
products were prohibited under federal law. She replied that she did not use THC “as a 
recreational product [or] for getting high [but uses] it for therapeutic [purposes] for pain 
and to help [her] sleep.” She acknowledged understanding that medicinal use of 
marijuana was illegal under federal law commenting “Maybe we need to change that[.] ” 
She has discussed various other remedies to treat her medical issues with health care 
providers and has tried other methods to help her sleep but has not found anything that 
works better for her than THC products. When asked if the only way to obtain a security 
clearance was to stop using all THC products Applicant stated: “Yes, if I had to, because 
of my financial situation right now.” (Tr. 46-49) 
Applicant has a prescription issued by a medical doctor in State A valid for the 
purchase of certain THC products in dispensaries. She has not been treated or diagnosed 
with respect to drug use and has not attended a drug rehabilitation program. (Tr. 74-79) 
Military Record  
Applicant had a solid record of performance in the Navy. She earned decorations 
and medals including a Joint Service Commendation Medal, Navy and Marine Corps 
Commendation Medal, multiple Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medals and Good 
Conduct Medals, Afghanistan Campaign Medal, Military Outstanding Volunteer Service 
Medal, NATO Medal (ISAF), and other personal and unit awards and citations. She was 
qualified as an Enlisted Surface Warfare Specialist and Aviation Warfare Specialist. She 
made multiple deployments including for one year in Afghanistan, earned numerous 
qualifications and completed many courses . In about 2016, she appeared at an Article 
15, Uniform Code of Military Justice hearing for violating an order regarding selling 
insurance and provided guidance to other sailors about how they could sell insurance . 
Although though no punishment was imposed, she then decided to retire. With the 
4 
 
 
   
      
 
 
  
 
   
     
   
   
 
 
     
     
 
 
  
  
   
    
 
   
 
  
 
  
   
  
   
   
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
exception of financial issues in 2005, she has had no other security concerning incidents 
and held a top secret clearance for many years. (Tr. 25-29, 57-73; GE 1; AE C-I) 
Policies  
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion of the Executive 
Branch in regulating access to information pertaining to national security emphasizing, 
“no one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 
518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to “ control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual 
is sufficiently trustworthy” to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The President 
has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicant’s eligibility for 
access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly consistent with the 
national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation 
about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Clearance 
decisions must be “in terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a 
determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 § 7. 
Thus, this decision should not be construed to suggest that it is based, in whole or in part, 
on any express or implied determination about applicant’s allegiance, loyalty, or 
patriotism. It is merely an indication the applicant has not met the strict guidelines the 
President, Secretary of Defense, and Director of National Intelligence have established 
for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 95 -0611 at 2 
(App. Bd. May 2, 1996). 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
   
      
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial  
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶  E3.1.15. An applicant “has  the ultimate burden of  demonstrating that it  
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant  or continue his [or  her] security  
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01- 20700 at  3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). The burden of  
disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the Government.  See  ISCR Case No. 02-
31154 at  5 (App. Bd.  Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  Egan, 484 U.S. at 531;  see  AG  ¶ 2(b).   
Analysis  
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
AG ¶ 24 expresses the security concern pertaining to drug involvement: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any “controlled substance” as 
defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in 
this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
Applicant’s admissions that she purchased, used and intended to continue to use 
THC in the future establish the following three disqualifying conditions under AG ¶ 25: 
(a) any substance misuse (see above definition);  
(c)  illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation,  
pr
ocessing,  manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession of  
drug paraphernalia;   and  
(g) expressed intent  t o continue drug involvement and substance misuse,  
or failure  to  clearly  and convincingly commit to discontinue such misuse.  
The f
ollowing mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 26 are potentially applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or  happened  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur  or does not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability,  trustworthiness,  or good judgment;  and  
(b) the individual acknowledges  hi s or her drug involvement and substance  
misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and  
has established a pattern of  abstinence, including, but not limited to:  
6 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
  
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
    
 
   
    
     
  
 
      
    
 
    
       
     
   
     
    
     
 
   
  
   
  
      
  
 
       
 
(1) di
sassociation from drug- using associates and contacts;  
(2) changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were  
us
ed; and  
(3)  providing a signed statement  o f  intent to abstain from  all    
drug involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that   
any future involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation of   
national security eligibility.   
The D
OHA Appeal Board recently noted that “the evolving landscape of marijuana 
law and policy in the United States informs us that simple recreational marijuana use no 
longer holds the same severe negative implications as many other illegal drugs 
[recreational marijuana use may deserve less, or even no negative inference] ,” which is 
“especially . . . true when the use occurs permissibly under state law.” ISCR Case No. 
24-00914 at 3 (App. Bd. April 9, 2025) (citations omitted). 
Several factors are important in the assessment of mitigation of marijuana 
possession and use: the duration of abstinence; state law; company policy; use after 
completion of an SCA; use while holding a sensitive position; use while having access to 
classified information; and broken promises not to use in the future. See ISCR 24-01001 
(App. Bd. Apr. 22, 2025) (affirming denial of security clearance; factors: one year of 
abstinence from marijuana use; used marijuana after completion of an SCA; used 
marijuana after promising not to use marijuana on SCA and during an OPM interview); 
ISCR Case No. 24 -01005 at 5 (App. Bd. Apr. 11, 2025) (denial of security clearance 
reversed; factors: two years of abstinence from marijuana use; no marijuana use while 
holding a security clearance or occupying sensitive position; marijuana possession and 
use permissible under state law; no marijuana use after notice that marijuana use was 
federally illegal; visible commitment to abandoning all future drug involvement). 
Applicant purchased and used products containing THC from about June 2023 
until at least June 16, 2025, two days before her hearing. She uses THC products to help 
with pain, anxiety, insomnia and PTSD and has experienced better results with THC 
products than with prescription drugs authorized under federal law or other non-medicinal 
options. There is no evidence she purchased or used THC in a state where such conduct 
was prohibited under state law, and I find that her purchases from dispensaries with a 
prescription and use of THC in State A were lawful under that state’s law. She is credited 
with voluntarily disclosing her involvement with THC during her October 2023 S/I and for 
the remainder of the security clearance process. 
AG ¶ 26(a) is not established. Applicant’s purchase and use of products containing 
THC for almost two years until at least June 2025 was not infrequent, was recent, and did 
not occur under circumstances unlikely to recur. Her behavior casts doubt on her current 
reliability, trustworthiness and good judgment. 
AG ¶ 26(b) is not established. Although Applicant declared her willingness to stop 
using THC if required to obtain a security clearance, she has not established a pattern of 
7 
 
 
  
  
    
    
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
   
  
     
 
  
  
  
   
  
    
  
      
    
       
    
    
   
  
 
       
    
    
      
     
     
 
abstinence. In addition, she submitted no evidence she has disassociated from drug-
using associates and contacts, no evidence that she has avoided environments where 
she used drugs, and she has not submitted the signed statement of intent to abstain from 
future drug use as required by AG ¶ 26(b)(3). 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all the circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guideline H in my whole -person analysis. Some of the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) were 
addressed under that guideline, but some warrant additional comment. 
I considered Applicant’s age, military record, security clearance history, work 
history, and that she disclosed h er drug involvement and substance misuse in h er 
October 2023 S/I and on multiple occasions thereafter. I found her testimony to be 
sincere, credible, and corroborated by other record evidence. I specifically found credible 
her claims that she uses THC products to help with pain, anxiety, insomnia and PTSD , 
and that she believes THC products work better for her than other lawful medications and 
methods she has tried. I considered that she has reduced her intake of THC , no longer 
takes THC products daily because of the security clearance process and has tried to see 
if she can “go without it.” 
I considered that , after Applicant acknowledged the purchase and use of THC 
products with a valid state prescription card remained prohibited under federal law and 
acknowledged future use may affect her security clearance eligibility, she continued to 
use THC for more than 14 months . I also considered that , during her hearing , she 
attributed her willingness to abstain from the future use of THC to obtain a security 
clearance to her current financial situation. 
8 
 
 
   
 
  
  
    
    
 
    
   
   
    
 
 
 
   
   
 
   
    
  
 
 
      
    
 
  
  
   
 
 
      
    
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
It is well settled that once a concern arises regarding an applicant’s security 
clearance eligibility, there is a strong presumption against granting a security clearance. 
See Dorfmont v. Brown, 913 F. 2d 1399, 1401. “[A] favorable clearance decision means 
that the record discloses no basis for doubt about an applicant’s eligibility for access to 
classified information.” ISCR Case No. 18-02085 at 7 (App. Bd. Jan. 3, 2020) (citing ISCR 
Case No. 12-00270 at 3 (App. Bd. Jan. 17, 2014)). 
I have carefully applied the law, as set forth in Egan, EO 10865, and the Directive 
to the facts and circumstances in the context of the whole person. Applicant failed to meet 
her burden of persuasion, and the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts 
as to her eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. For all these reasons, I conclude 
Applicant failed to mitigate the security concerns raised under Guideline H. 
This decision should not be construed as a determination that Applicant cannot or 
will not attain the state of true reform and rehabilitation necessary to be eligible for a 
security clearance. The determination of an individual’s eligibility and suitabilit y for a 
security clearance is not a once in a lifetime occurrence, but is based on applying the 
factors, both disqualifying and mitigating, to the evidence presented. Under h er current 
circumstances, a clearance is not warranted. In the future, she may wel l demonstrate 
persuasive evidence of her security worthiness. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline H:  AGAINST APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a-
 1.b:  Against Applicant  
Conclusion  
In 
light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national security to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Eric C. Price 
Administrative Judge 
9 