                                                                                          
        
                                                              
                             
          
           
             
 
 
   
         
               
    
    
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
   
 
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
     
______________ 
______________ 
 ` 
DEP
ARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 24-02076 
Appearances  
For Government: William H. Miller, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro Se 
09/17/2025 
Decision 
KATAUSKAS, Philip J., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant provided insufficient evidence to mitigate the security concerns raised 
under Guideline F, financial considerations. Eligibility is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted his security clearance application (SCA) on March 6, 2024, in 
connection with her employment by a defense contractor. On December 26, 2024, 
following a background investigation, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued Applicant 
a Statement of Reasons (SOR) detailing security concerns under Guideline F, financial 
considerations. DOD issued the SOR under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, 
Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; 
DOD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program 
(January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the Security Executive Agent Directive 4 
(SEAD 4) National Security Adjudicative Guidelines (AG), which became effective on 
June 8, 2017. 
On March 10, 2025 , Applicant submitted an answer to the SOR (Answer) and 
requested a decision by an administrative judge from the Defense Office of Hearings and 
1 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
        
 
   
    
    
    
   
 
       
        
     
     
    
   
 
  
      
   
      
     
      
 
      
         
     
   
 
     
  
      
    
Appeals (DOHA) based on the administrative (written) record, in lieu of  a hearing.   On  
March  27, 2025, Department Counsel submitted the Government’s File of Relevant  
Material (FORM), including documents identified as  Government Exhibits (GE)  1 through  
8. On March 31, 2025, the FORM was  mailed to  Applicant  who received  it on April 13,  
2025. She  was afforded an opportunity to note objections and to submit material in  
refutation, extenuation, or mitigation,  and was  given 30 days  from receipt of the FORM  to  
do so.  She  submitted no  response.  GE  1 and 2, the SOR and the Answer, respectively,  
are the pleadings in the case.  GE  3 through 8  are admitted without objection. The case  
was  assigned to me on  July 21, 2025.   
Findings of Fact   
After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and the Government’s 
exhibits, I make the following findings of fact: 
Applicant is 36 years old, has never married, and has no children. She is a high 
school graduate (June 2006). From July 2000 to June 2022, she lived in State A , where 
she was born. She moved to State B in June 2022 and lived there until June 2023, when 
she moved back to State A. With one stint of unemployment (July to October 2023), since 
April 2019, she has worked as a marine welder. Since October 2023, she has worked for 
a defense contractor , which is her sponsor . This is her first application for a security 
clearance. (GE 3.) 
The SOR alleged that Applicant has four charged off consumer debts for $20,211 
and one consumer debt in collection for $50. (GE 1.) She admitted all of those debts. For 
SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.d, she simply stated: “I plan to mitigate this debt.” She provided no 
documents showing any mitigation efforts. For SOR ¶ 1. e, she explained that she was 
communicating with the collection agency about paying the debt in full. She did not 
provide any documents evidencing those communications or a final resolution. 
In her Answer, she also identified two debts that are not alleged and are “in good 
standing.” The first is an auto lease with a monthly payment of $714, and the second is 
an unsecured loan with a monthly payment of $421. She claims that those two loans are 
a “huge chunk of her budget” and “will be ending soon. ” The credit reports support her 
claim. (GE 8 at 2.) With her Answer, she provided a billing st atement showing that the 
auto lease matured on July 19, 2025. She believes that when those two accounts are 
resolved, she will be in a “more suitable and comfortable position to conduct payment 
arrangements.” (GE 2.) At that point, she also plans to resume monthly payments on her 
other debts. (GE 5.) Her current monthly remainder is $142. At the time of her personal 
subject interview (PSI) she was expecting an increase in pay in the next couple of months. 
(GE 4.) 
In her PSI, Applicant explained how she came to be in financial straits. Her 
accounts were current until sometime in 2023, when she became unable to meet all of 
her monthly payments. In June 2022, she moved from State A to State B for employment 
opportunities. She made the move, because she had been told there would be increased 
2 
 
 
      
      
     
       
     
      
     
 
 
    
  
     
   
 
  
  
    
   
  
    
  
 
   
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
       
    
 
 
 
       
 
    
      
   
       
pay and overtime available in State B. She found, however, that o vertime was not 
available, and her pay was significantly less than anticipated. As a result, she began to 
fall behind on her bills in early 2023. Her sister passed away in February 2023, and she 
was grieving and focused on family. She then relocated to State A in June 2023 and has 
been trying to improve her financial situation. (GE 5.) When she returned to State A, she 
had difficulty finding steady employment in her trade. In addition, in State A, the cost of 
living was high, and the wages were not the best. (GE 3.) 
Law and Policies  
It is well established that no one has a right to a security clearance. As the 
Supreme Court has noted, “the clearly consistent standard indicates that security 
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy 
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988). 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines, which 
are flexible rules of law, apply together with common sense and the general factors of the 
whole-person concept. The administrative judge must consider all available and reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favor able and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 
2(b) requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national 
security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel. . . .” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion in seeking a favorable security decision. 
Analysis   
Guideline F - Financial Considerations  
The security concern relating to Guideline F for financial considerations is set 
out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's means, satisfy debts, and meet 
financial obligations may indicate poor self-control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, 
mental health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or 
dependence. An individual who is financially overextended is at greater 
3 
 
 
 
 
         
  
      
      
 
         
 
   
    
 
 
 
 
  
          
     
 
   
        
   
 
 
 
    
    
       
          
           
 
risk of having to engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to 
generate funds.  
T
his concern is broader than the possibility that an individual might knowingly 
compromise classified information in order to raise money. It encompasses concerns 
about an individual’s self-control, judgment, and other qualities essential to protecting 
classified information. An individual who is financially irresponsible may also be 
irresponsible, unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding classified 
information. ISCR Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012). 
Guideline F notes conditions that could raise security concerns under AG ¶ 19. 
The following conditions are applicable in this case: 
(a)  inability  t
o satisfy  debts;  and  
(b)   a history  of  not  m eeting financial  obligations.  
The SOR
 debts are established by Applicant's admissions and the 
Government's credit reports. Therefore, AG ¶ ¶ 19(a) and (b) apply. The next inquiry 
is whether any mitigating conditions apply. 
Guideline F also includes conditions that could mitigate security concerns 
arising from financial difficulties. The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 
are potentially applicable: 
(a)  the behavior happened so long ago, was  so i
 nfrequent, or occurred  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur  and does  not  
cast doubt on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or  
good judgment;  and  
(b)  the conditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely  
bey
ond the person's  control  (e.g.,  loss  of  employment,  a business 
downturn, unexpected medical emergency, a death,  divorce or  
separation, clear victimization by predatory lending practices, or identity  
theft),  and  the individual  acted responsibly  under  the circumstances.  
I have considered mitigating condition AG ¶ 20(a). Applicant’s financial 
problems are of recent vintage. Her debts are numerous and substantial enough to 
raise security concerns. Applicant has offered no evidence of mitigation efforts of 
these debts. Finally, there is no record evidence of her past reliability, trustworthiness, 
or good judgment. I find that mitigating condition AG ¶ 20(a) does not apply. 
Mitigating condition AG ¶ 20( b) requires  that an applicant’s financial  woes be 
(1)  caused  by  conditions  “largely  beyond” her  control,  and (2)  she  acted responsibly  
4 
 
 
       
       
     
          
    
  
 
   
   
     
    
      
       
        
 
  
     
  
   
    
 
 
 
    
     
 
 
     
 
      
    
 
   
 
       
 
 
     
   
   
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
in light of those adverse factors. She suffered a period of unemployment just after 
she returned to State A, from July to October 2023. Having been disappointed in the 
employment prospects upon moving to State B , her return to State A did not relieve 
her financial problems. Her inability to find satisfactory employment in State B or State 
A is a condition largely beyond her control, thus satisfying the first element of AG ¶ 
20(b). 
The next inquiry is whether Applicant acted responsibly upon facin g her 
inability to find suitable employment upon her return to State A. With a monthly 
remainder of $142, she likely did not have sufficient cash to defray her outstanding debts. 
As she did with the SOR ¶ 1.e creditor, she could have opened lines of communications 
with her other SOR creditors, explained that her cash flow would soon improve by a raise 
and two debts being retired, and sought a br ief forbearance. Doing nothing was not 
responsible conduct. I find that mitigating condition AG ¶ 20(b) does not apply. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under AG ¶ 2(a), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. AG ¶¶ 2(a) and (d)(1)-(9) 
(explaining the “whole-person” concept and factors). In my analysis above, I considered 
the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions and the whole- person concept in 
light of all the facts and circumstances surrounding this case. 
Applicant leaves me with questions about her eligibility and suitability for a security 
clearance. Therefore, I conclude that Applicant has not provided sufficient evidence to 
mitigate the security concerns arising under Guideline F, financial considerations. 
Formal Findings   
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:  AG
 AINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 1.a  - 1.e:              Against  Applicant  
Conclusion  
In l
ight of all of the circumstances presented, it is not clearly consistent with the 
interests of national security to grant Applicant access to classified information. Eligibility 
for access to classified information is denied. 
Philip J. Katauskas 
Administrative Judge 
5 