 
 
 
                                       
                       
                       DEPARTMENT  OF DEFENSE  
    DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS  
    
     
           
             
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
     
 
      
        
          
  
       
    
       
       
        
   
 
          
           
          
           
______________ 
______________ 
In  the  matter of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR  Case No.  24-01168  
  )    
 )  
Applicant for Security Clearance  )  
Appearances  
For Government: Aubrey De Angelis, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
01/15/2025 
Decision  
LOKEY ANDERSON, Darlene D., Administrative Judge: 
Statement of Case  
On January 4, 2024 , Applicant submitted a security clearance application ( e-
QIP). On August 5, 2024 , the Defense C ounterintelligence and Security Agency 
Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS) issued Applicant a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR), detailing security concerns under Guideline F, Financial 
Considerations. The action was taken under Executive Order 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DoD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive); and the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for 
Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a 
Sensitive Position (AG), effective within the DoD after June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR on a date uncertain , and requested a hearing 
before an administrative judge. The case was assigned to me on October 4, 2024. The 
Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals issued a notice of hearing on October 16, 
2024, and the hearing was convened as scheduled on November 7, 2024 . The 
1 
 
 
 
         
        
          
        
     
       
      
   
 
 
 
     
        
         
     
 
 
       
     
       
 
 
     
       
       
          
       
      
 
      
         
   
       
    
 
      
             
             
          
          
          
       
      
 
Government offered three exhibits, referred to as Government Exhibits 1 through 3, 
which were admitted without objection. The Applicant offered four exhibits, referred to 
as Applicant’s Exhibits A through D, which were admitted without objection. Applicant 
testified on his own behalf. The record remained open until close of business on 
November 8, 2024, to allow the Applicant to submit additional supporting 
documentation. Applicant submitted one Post -Hearing Submission, referred to as 
Applicant’s Post -Hearing Exhibit A, which was admitted without objection. DOHA 
received the transcript of the hearing (Tr.) on November 25, 2024. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 30 years old. He and his girlfriend reside together, with their recently 
born baby boy . Applicant has a high school diploma . He holds the position of Heavy 
Equipment Mechanic. He is seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection with 
his employment. 
Guideline F - Financial Considerations  
The Government alleged that Applicant is ineligible for a clearance because he 
made financial decisions that indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which raise questions about h is 
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information. 
The SOR identified ten delinquent debts totaling in excess of $ 34,267, which 
includes consumer collections and charge-offs, and a medical account . Applicant 
admits each of the allegations except the debt set forth in 1.d. of the SOR, which is a 
medical account that he believes his employer should be responsible to pay. Credit 
reports of the Applicant dated January 18, 2024; and September 18, 2024 , confirm the 
indebtedness listed in the SOR. (Government Exhibits 2 and 3.) 
Applicant applied for a security clearance in January 2024, and began working 
full time for his current employer, a defense contractor in about February 2024. His 
salary on this job is about $60,000 annually. In August 2024, his security clearance was 
suspended pending the outcome of this hearing. Before this employment, he worked for 
several years for another company in the maintenance department. 
Applicant explained that his financial problems began in 2021, or 2022, when he 
and h e and his then girlfriend moved out of state for new employment opportunities. 
Once out of state, the job he found did not pay as much as he had previously been 
earning, and the opportunities were not better. After about six months or so, he 
returned with hopes of getting his old job back. He was not rehired, as by then his 
previous employer h ad filled his position. At that point, Applicant was forced to live on 
his unemployment benefits of $900 every two weeks, and he has fallen farther behind 
on his bills. (Tr. p. 35.) 
2 
 
 
 
       
         
          
        
 
 
 
         
       
            
    
        
           
       
        
          
 
        
           
        
           
       
      
   
 
 
           
      
        
    
 
Applicant stated that to address his debts, he has contacted his creditors via the 
collection agencies , and has inquired about setting up payment plans to resolve his 
debts. Two weeks ago, he contacted and hired a credit counseling company, “Credit 
Sage”, to provide additional help in resolving his debts. (Applicant’s Exhibit A.) 
The following delinquent debts set forth in the SOR are of security concern: 
1.a.  Applicant is indebted to a credit union in the amount of $ 18,678 for an 
account that was charged off. Applicant acknowledged that he opened this account in 
September 2019 and last made a payment on the account in May 2022. He stopped 
making the monthly payments because he moved out of state. Two to three weeks ago, 
Applicant set up a payment plan to resolve the debt. He will pay $100 monthly now and 
when he gets back to full -time employment, he will arrange to increase his monthly 
payment. (Tr. pp. 33 -34.) Applicant has made one payment so far under this 
agreement. (Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit A.) His second payment is scheduled to 
be due the day after the hearing. (Applicant’s Exhibit B.)  The debt remains owing. 
1.b.   Applicant  is indebted  to  a  creditor in  the  amount  of $9,829  for an  account  
that  was charged  off.   This was for tools that  Applicant needed  for work.  The  account 
was opened  in May 2018, and  no  payment has been  made  since  September 2021.   (Tr.  
p. 36.)  The  creditor wanted  $5,000  down to  start a  payment plan.  Applicant cannot  
currently afford this plan  but plans to  address the  debt when  he  gets back to  work full  
time.  (Tr. p. 37.)  The  debt remains owing.       
1.c. Applicant is indebted to a creditor for a loan in the amount of $ 3,302 for an 
account that was charged off. The loan was opened in July 2017 and last paid in 
September 2021. Applicant acknowledged that he took out the loan and that it was his. 
Applicant’s credit counselors have disputed the debt and it was removed from 
Applicant’s credit reports. (Tr. p. 38 , and Applicant’s Exhibit D.) The debt is no longer 
owing. 
1.d.  Applicant  is indebted  to  a  creditor in  the  amount of $1,416  for a  medical  
account that was placed  for collection.   Applicant explained  that he  was hurt on  his job  
and  he  was  taken  to  the  hospital  for emergency medical care.   He  stated  that  he  was  
told by his supervisor that his employer would  cover the  medical expenses.  Applicant  
has made  no  contact  with  the  creditor or the  facility where he  was  treated.  There  is no  
documentation  in the  record to  show that Applicant does not  owe the  debt.  (Tr. pp. 39-
46.)  The debt remains owing.    
1.e.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of $ 1,262 for an account 
that was placed for collection. This was a credit card that Applicant opened. He stated 
that his credit counselors are currently working on setting up a payment plan for him to 
follow.  (Tr. p. 46-47.)  The debt remains owing. 
1.f.  Applicant is indebted  to  a  creditor in the  amount  of  $948  for an  account that  
was placed  for collection.  This account  was opened  around  2020.  Applicant used  it to  
purchase  new tires.   He stopped  making  payments in  2022.   He  has  tried  and  will  
3 
 
 
 
               
     
 
   
 
   
 
  
        
       
          
          
         
  
 
          
       
     
          
       
            
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
continue to try to set up a payment plan with the creditor. (Tr. p. 48.) The debt remains 
owing. 
1.g.  Applicant is indebted  to  a  creditor in  the  amount  of $898  for an  account that  
was placed  for collection.   This was for car insurance.  Applicant contacted  the  creditor  
about the  bill because  he  believes that  he  cancelled  the  policy.  The  creditor does  not  
agree  that  the policy was cancelled.  Applicant is  trying  to  find  the email to  show  that  the  
policy was cancelled.  If  he  does not find  it, he  will  pay  them  what  he  owes them.  (Tr.  
pp. 48-50.)   The debt remains owing.  
1.h.   Applicant is indebted  to  a  creditor in  the  amount  of $774  for an  account that  
was placed  for  collection.  Applicant does  not  recall  what  this  debt  was for, but  he  
acknowledges  that it  is his debt.   He  has  not paid  the  debt.  The  debt remains owing.  
(Tr. p. 53.)  
1.i.  Applicant is indebted  to  a  creditor in the  amount of $315  for an  account that  
was placed  for collection.   This is a  cash  advance  application  opened  in  September  
2021, and  last  paid in  October 2021.  Applicant has not addressed  this debt as of yet.  
He stated  that he  believes the  debt is small and  he  plans to  resolve it with  his next  
check.  (Tr. pp. 50-51  and  Applicant’s Exhibit C.) The  debt remains owing.   
1.j.  Applicant  is indebted  to  a  creditor in the  amount  of $147  for an  account that  
was placed  for  collection.  Applicant does  not  recall  what  this  debt  was for, but  he  
acknowledges that it  is his debt.   He stated  that he  plans to  pay it off  with  his next  
check.  (Tr. pp. 53-54, and  Applicant’s Exhibit C.) The  debt remains owing.     
Applicant is now in a new relationship. He and his girlfriend recently had their 
first child. They have been living together for the past three or four months. His 
girlfriend works full time in medical billing and contributes to the household expenses by 
purchasing the groceries. Since she is currently on maternity leave, she brings home 
about 60 percent of her regular pay. Applicant does not know the amount she earns 
annually. 
Applicant testified that even while earning his full salary of $60,000 annually, at 
the end of the month, after paying his regular monthly expenses, such as the mortgage, 
car insurance, utilities, internet etc., (since his girlfriend buys the groceries) he does not 
have any discretionary monies left to pay his delinquent debts. He has about $400 in 
his savings account, and not much in his checking account. He is also currently paying 
his credit counseling service $100 to start the program and $24 monthly for as long as it 
takes to get the debts resolved.  (Tr. pp. 55-60.) 
4 
 
 
 
 
      
        
       
         
   
 
          
    
           
      
      
        
            
 
 
      
    
        
           
        
 
 
       
       
       
     
            
  
 
           
   
  
              
      
       
        
  
 
          
               
       
   
 
 
 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The 
administrative judge’s over arching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial , and 
commonsense decision. The entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number o f 
variables known as the whole-person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I 
have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical and based on the 
evidence contained in the record. Likewise, I have avoided drawing inferences 
grounded on mere speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, 
or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel .” The 
applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable clearance 
decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The g overnment 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to 
potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
     
   
            
   
      
          
     
    
    
        
       
  
 
 
    
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
        
   
 
  
 
  
Analysis  
Guideline F -  Financial Considerations  
The security concern for Financial Considerations is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
Affluence that cannot be explained by known sources of income is also a 
security concern insofar as it may result from criminal activity, including 
espionage. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. Two are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) inability or unwillingness to satisfy debts;  and   
(c)  a history of not meeting financial obligations.  
Applicant has  a  history of  financial hardship.   His  actions  or inactions  both  
demonstrated  a  history of not addressing  his  debt and  an  inability to  do  so. The  
evidence is sufficient to  raise  the above disqualifying conditions.  
The following m itigating conditions under the Financial Considerations guideline 
are potentially applicable under AG ¶ 20. 
(a)  the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or occurred  
under such  circumstances that it is unlikely to  recur and  does not cast  
doubt on   the  individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good   
judgment;  
(b)  the  conditions  that resulted  in the  financial problem  were largely  
beyond  the  person’s  control (e.g. loss   of employment, a   business  
downturn, unexpected  medical emergency, or a  death, divorce,  or  
separation), and  the individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;   
(d) the  individual  initiated  and  is adhering  to  a  good  faith  effort to  repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  and  
6 
 
 
 
   
         
    
        
       
         
       
   
 
     
          
       
      
            
         
        
   
 
 
          
      
         
    
  
 
      
       
           
    
     
   
 
(e) the  individual has  a  reasonable basis to  dispute  the  legitimacy  of the  
past-due  debt which  is the  cause  of the  problem  and  provides  
documented  proof  to  substantiate  the  basis  of  the  dispute  or provides  
evidence  of actions to  resolve the issue.  
Applicant has incurred delinquent debt that he cannot afford to pay. He has 
recently directed his focus at resolving his delinquent debts. However, he is just starting 
the process. Applicant’s financial irresponsibility and inaction is recent and casts doubt 
on h is current reliability, tr ustworthiness, or good judgment. Applicant needs time to 
show the Government that he can and will continue to properly resolve his financial 
delinquencies with regular systematic payments and consistency. None of the 
mitigating conditions are applicable. 
There is insufficient evidence in the record to show that Applicant’s delinquent 
debts have been resolved. In the last two or three weeks he set up a payment plan and 
made his first payment to one of his creditors. Another debt was disputed by his credit 
counseling company and removed from his credit report. Overall, Applicant shows little 
progress towards resolving his debts. He still owes a significant amount of money to his 
creditors that he obviously cannot afford to pay or has ignored for some time. There is 
insufficient evidence in the record to show that the Applicant has carried his burden of 
proof to establish mitigation of the government security concerns under Guideline F. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole -person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of  
rehabilitation  and  other permanent  behavioral changes;  (7) the  motivation  
for the  conduct;  (8) the  potential  for pressure, coercion,  exploitation, or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood  of continuation  or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2( c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole -person concept. In the event that 
Applicant follows through with his commitment to show financial responsibility , 
sometime in the future he may be found to be sufficiently reliable to properly protect and 
access classified information. At this time, he is not eligible for a security clearance. 
7 
 
 
 
       
      
     
 
 
 
      
   
 
  
 
      
 
      
   
  
 
 
 
             
       
   
                                                
 
 
 
 
 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
relevant facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I conclude App licant has not 
mitigated the Financial Considerations security concern. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by ¶ E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  F:   AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a.   and 1.b  Against  Applicant  
Subparagraph  1.c  For Applicant   
Subparagraphs 1.d. through 1.j  Against Applicant  
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue Applicant’s eligibility for 
a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Darlene Lokey Anderson 
Administrative Judge 
8 