 
 
 
                                                                                                                                 
                                                             
                         
          
           
 
 
 
    
  
         
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
     
        
        
      
         
        
          
    
 
            
         
      
         
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
[Name Redacted] ) ISCR Case No. 24-00853 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: A.H. Henderson, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro Se 
01/29/2025 
Decision 
HOGAN, Erin C., Administrative Judge: 
This case involves security concerns raised under Guideline F (Financial 
Considerations). Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on October 16, 2023. 
On July 29, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency Consolidated 
Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS ) sent her a Statement of Reasons (SOR) alleging 
security concerns under Guideline F. The CAS acted under Executive Order (EO) 10865, 
Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; 
Department of Defense ( DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security 
Clearance Review Program (January 2,1992), as amended (Directive); and the 
adjudicative guidelines (AG) implemented by the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR on August 13, 2024, and requested a decision based 
on the written record in lieu of a hearing. On September 11, 2024, the Government sent 
Applicant a complete copy of its written case, a file of relevant material (FORM), including 
pleadings and evidentiary documents identified as Items 1 through 8. She was given an 
1 
 
 
 
       
     
              
          
     
 
 
           
   
  
 
      
      
  
     
         
       
          
           
               
     
          
    
      
         
        
           
          
   
        
 
opportunity to submit a documentary response setting forth objections, rebuttal, 
extenuation, mitigation, or explanation to the Government’s evidence. She received the 
FORM on September 19, 2024 . She was given 30 days to submit a Response to the 
FORM. She did not submit a response. The case was forwarded to the DOHA Hearing 
Office on November 4, 2024, and assigned to me on December 5, 2024. 
Evidentiary Matters  
Item 1 contains the pleadings in the case and is part of the record. Items 2 through 
8 are admitted into evidence. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant, age 48, is an employee of a DOD contractor since 2023 who is seeking 
a security clearance. Her highest level of education is a bachelor’s degree. She divorced 
in 2022 and has two children. (Item 2) 
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on October 16, 2023. 
(Item 2) A subsequent background investigation revealed the Applicant had three 
delinquent accounts, for an approximate total of $ 34,822. The SOR debts include: a 
$20,210 charged-off credit card account that was delinquent since 2017 (SOR ¶ 1.a: Item 
4 at 2; Item 5 at 4 ; Item 6 at 3; Item 7 at 2 ); a $920 medical account that was placed for 
collection in 2020 (SOR ¶ 1.b: Item 4 at 2; Item 5 at 4; Item 7 at 2); and a $13,692 charged-
off account that was delinquent since Fall 2017. (SOR ¶ 1.c: Item 5 at 6; Item 6 at 3) 
In her response to the SOR, Applicant admits all the SOR allegations, but states 
the debts no longer appear on her credit report. (Item 1, Response to SOR) 
Applicant was interviewed during a previous security clearance background 
investigation on January 9, 2019. She acknowledged the debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a 
and 1.c. She told that investigator that she would make arrangements to settle or close 
these debts as soon as she was able to afford it. (Item 4; Item 5 at 4, 6-7) She took no 
steps to resolve any of these accounts. Instead, she waited until they were removed from 
her credit report after seven years as required under the Fair Credit Reporting Act. 
Applicant mentioned in response to a DOHA Interrogatory, dated March 15, 2024, 
that: 
4. Please  provide  a  detailed  explanation  describing  the  circumstances  that  
caused the accounts listed  above to become  delinquent.  
In  2016  my husband  and  I were  late  on  a  couple of our credit card payments  
which  caused  our minimum  payment to  increase  to  an  amount that was  
unmanageable with  our limited  income. The  medical debt went into  
collections before I even  knew it existed. I had  received  several bills from  
various providers for one procedure and thought they were paid.   
(Item  4 at 5)  
2 
 
 
 
 
         
    
      
 
 
       
        
           
         
        
          
      
 
       
         
       
        
  
      
   
 
           
   
         
     
        
   
 
 
        
             
5. Please  provide  any  additional information, facts,  or circumstances  you  
believe  could  assist in  if it is  clearly consistent with  the  national  interest to  
grant or continue your position of national security.   
I  would  like  to  settle  these debts, but  I  haven’t been  able to  recently.  Three  
years ago  I decided  to  divorce  my husband. In  order to  save  my kids and  I  
from  more emotional abuse, I ended  up  giving  him  the  house  which he  
owned  before we married. During  our marriage, I was the  only one  with  
good enough credit to  have credit cards, and  so I retained  all that when we  
separated. I plan  on  contacting  these  institutions soon  in order to  settle  
these  debts as  I was recently promoted  and  have  received  a  raise  that  
should enable me to do so.  
(Item  4 at 5)  
In response to the March 2024 interrogatories, Applicant provided a copy of her 
budget. Her net monthly income was $3,070. Her net monthly expenses were $2,724. 
She had $144 left over each month after expenses. (Item 4 at 7) 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” (Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988) ). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” (Egan at 527). 
The President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant 
applicants eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is 
clearly consistent with the national interest to do so.” (EO 10865 § 2) 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the AG. These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, 
recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge applies these 
guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative 
judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available and reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such de cisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” (EO 10865 § 
3 
 
 
 
           
        
  
 
    
   
        
        
        
           
       
          
      
         
           
             
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
      
       
     
         
       
  
 
7). Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant has 
not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have established 
for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burde n of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. (Egan, 484 U.S. at 531). “Substantial 
evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” (See v. Washington 
Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994) ). The guidelines presume a 
nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria listed 
therein and an applicant’s security suitability. ISCR Case No. 15 -01253 at 3 (App. Bd. 
Apr. 20, 2016). Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition by substantial 
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the 
facts. (Directive ¶ E3.1.15). An applicant has the burden of proving a mitigating condition, 
and the burden of disproving it never shifts to the Government. (ISCR Case No. 02-31154 
at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005)) 
  An applicant “has the ultimate burden  of demonstrating  that it is clearly consistent  
with  the  national interest to  grant or continue  his security clearance.”  (ISCR  Case  No.  01-
20700  at 3  (App. Bd.  Dec.  19, 2002)).  “[S]ecurity clearance  determinations should  err, if  
they must, on the side  of denials.”  (Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; AG ¶ 2(b))  
Analysis  
Guideline F: Financial Considerations  
The concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to  live  within  one's means, satisfy debts, and  meet financial  
obligations may indicate  poor self-control, lack of judgment,  or  
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise  
questions about an  individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and  ability to  
protect  classified  or  sensitive information.  Financial distress can  also be  
caused  or  exacerbated  by, and  thus can  be  a  possible  indicator of,  other  
issues of  personnel security concern  such  as  excessive gambling, mental  
health  conditions, substance  misuse, or alcohol abuse  or dependence. An  
individual who  is financially overextended  is at greater risk of having  to  
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to  generate funds.   
This concern is broader than the possibility that a person might knowingly 
compromise classified information to raise money. It encompasses concerns about a 
person’s self -control, judgment, and other qualities essential to protecting classified 
information. A person who is financially irr esponsible may also be irresponsible, 
unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding classified information. (ISCR 
Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012). 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
    
   
     
 
 
 
 
         
  
 
     
 
        
             
            
         
           
   
 
          
    
         
       
      
            
       
         
 
 
         
  
AG ¶  19  notes  several disqualifying  conditions that  could  raise  security concerns.  
The disqualifying conditions that are relevant to Applicant’s case include:  
(a)  inability to satisfy debts;  and  
(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations. 
AG ¶ 19(a) and AG ¶ 19(c) apply to Applicant’s delinquent debts alleged in SOR 
¶¶ 1.a – 1.g. The total approximate balance of the delinquent debt is over $34,822. 
AG ¶ 20 describes conditions that could mitigate security concerns. The following 
are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or occurred  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur and  does not  cast doubt  
on in the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;   
(b) the  conditions  that resulted  in the  financial problem  were  largely  beyond  
the  person's control  (e.g.,  loss of  employment,  a  business downturn,  
unexpected  medical emergency,  a  death,  divorce  or separation, clear  
victimization  by predatory lending  practices, or identity  theft), and  the  
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;  and     
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good -faith effort to repay 
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts. 
AG ¶ 20(a) does not apply because Applicant’s financial problems are ongoing. 
AG ¶ 20(b) applies, in part, because Applicant divorced her husband around 2021. 
She allowed him to keep the house and she accepted responsibility for the credit cards , 
which does not appear to be a fair property settlement. The divorce was a circumstance 
beyond her control. However, the mitigating condition is given less weight because I 
cannot conclude she acted responsibly under the circumstances since she failed to show 
any attempt to resolve her delinquent debts. 
AG ¶ 20(d) does not apply because Applicant did not initiate a good-faith effort to 
repay or resolve her delinquent debts. Instead, she passively waited until her debts were 
removed from her credit reports after seven years as required by the Fair Credit Reporting 
Act. The DOHA Appeal Board has long held that an Administrative Judge is not precluded 
from considering the security significance of an applicant’s delinquent debts merely 
because those debts are barred by a statute of limitations. (ISCR Case No. 00-0423 (June 
8, 2001). This also applies in cases where an applicant passively waits for their debts to 
be removed from their credit report after seven years rather than taking steps to resolve 
them. 
Overall, she failed to meet h er burden of proof to mitigate the concerns raised 
under Financial Considerations. 
5 
 
 
 
  
 
     
       
          
          
          
 
 
         
      
      
        
      
     
   
  
 
       
           
          
    
         
       
            
    
  
 
 
       
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether the granting or continuing 
of national security eligibility is clearly consistent with the interests of national security 
must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration of the 
adjudicative guidelines, each of which is to be evaluated in the context of the whole 
person. An administrative judge should consider the nine adjudicative process factors 
listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
I have incorporated my comments under Guideline F in my whole-person analysis, 
and I have considered the factors in AG ¶ 2(d). I considered Applicant’s employment with 
a DOD contractor since 2023. I considered her divorce and that she is a mother of two 
sons. However, she failed to show that she made any attempts to resolve her delinquent 
accounts. She no longer feels responsible for the debts because they are n o longer on 
her credit report. After weighing the disqualifying and mitigating conditions under 
Guideline F and evaluating all the evidence in the context of the whole person, I conclude 
that Applicant has not mitigated the security concerns raised under financial 
considerations. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as required by Section 
E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline F:  AGAINST APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a  –  1.c:  Against  Applicant  
Conclusion  
I conclude that it is not clearly consistent with the interests of national security to 
grant Applicant eligibility for access to classified information. Clearance is denied. 
Erin C. Hogan 
Administrative Judge 
6 