 
 
                                      
 
     
         
           
             
 
 
 
   
  
      
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
   
 
 
     
     
       
        
         
         
       
      
        
     
          
    
          
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00256 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Andrea M. Corrales, Esquire, Deputy Chief Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
02/07/2025 
Remand Decision 
GALES, Robert Robinson, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to mitigate the security concerns regarding drug involvement and 
substance misuse. Eligibility for a security clearance is denied. 
Statement of the  Case  
On December 24, 2022, Applicant applied for a security clearance and submitted 
a Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86) . On August 29 , 202 3, an 
investigator from the U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) interviewed him . On 
an unspecified date, the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued him a 
set of interrogatories. He responded to those interrogatories on December 21, 2023. On 
another unspecified date, DOHA issued him another set of interrogatories. He responded 
to those interrogatories on February 27 , 202 4. On April 11, 202 4, the Defense 
Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) Adjudications and Vetting Services 
(AVS) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) to him under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 
10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as 
amended and modified; Department of Defense ( DoD) Directive 5220.6, Defense 
Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended 
and modified (Directive); and Directive 4 of the Security Executive Agent (SEAD 4), 
1 
 
 
                                      
 
        
 
 
      
           
       
         
  
 
            
           
    
            
        
             
      
          
           
   
 
          
      
      
 
 
         
   
 
 
        
        
          
       
 
 
 
 
              
     
National Security Adjudicative Guidelines (December 10, 2016) (AG), effective June 8, 
2017. 
The SOR alleged security concerns under Guideline H (Drug Involvement and 
Substance Misuse) and detailed reasons why the DCSA adjudicators were unable to find 
that it is clearly consistent with t he national interest to grant or continue a security 
clearance for Applicant. The SOR recommended referral to an administrative judge to 
determine whether a clearance should be granted, continued, denied, or revoked. 
On May 16, 2024, Applicant responded to the SOR and elected to have h is case 
decided on the written record in lieu of a hearing . A complete copy of the Government’s 
file of relevant material (FORM) , including proposed Government Exhibits (GE ), was 
mailed to him by DOHA on June 26, 2024, and he was afforded an opportunity, within a 
period of 30 days, to file objections and submit material in refutation, extenuation, or 
mitigation. In addition to the FORM, he was furnished a copy of the Directive as well as 
the Adjudicative Guidelines applicable to his case. Applicant received the FORM on July 
23, 2024. His response was due on August 22, 2024. As of August 28, 2024, no response 
had been received. The case was assigned to me on October 11, 2024, and there was 
still no response to the FORM. 
On October 16, 2024, after having considered all the evidence, I issued a decision 
in the case that it was not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant 
eligibility for a security clearance . Accordingly, his access to classified information was 
denied. Applicant subsequently appealed that decision. 
On January 16, 2025, the DOHA Appeal Board issued a decision, remanding the 
case for the following reasons involving “Statement of Intent” and “Sensitive Position.” 
Statement of Intent:  
In concluding that Applicant’s marijuana use was unmitigated, the Judge noted that 
Applicant “had not submitted a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug 
involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future involvement or misuse 
is grounds for revocation of national security eligibility.” Decision at 4, 7-8.1 On appeal, 
Applicant successfully challenges this finding. 
Applicant,  in  his mid-20s and  a  resident  of a  state  where  adult  
recreational marijuana  use  is legal at the  state  level, was hired  by a  federal  
contractor in July 2022. In  his December 2022  initial security clearance  
application  (SCA), he  disclosed  that he  had  used  marijuana  from  about  
March 2018  to  February 2022, and  stated  his intention  against  using  the  
drug  again. During  his August  2023  clearance  interview,  Applicant  
volunteered  that he  had  used  marijuana  one  additional time  the  prior month  
and  again asserted his intention  to  not use  marijuana in the future.  
1 The Judge further noted that, “as of the closing of the record, Applicant still had in place his 
seemingly set-aside previous declaration that he would not use marijuana in the future.” Id. at 7. 
2 
 
 
                                      
 
 
 
          
       
      
    
 
 
 
        
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  his May 2024  Answer to  the  SOR (Answer), Applicant admitted  
the  alleged  marijuana  use, explaining  that, “I used  Marijuana  a  single  time  
in July 2023  after stopping  use  in  February  of 2022. I  avoid any  environment  
where Marijuana was  used. Using it  that one  tome in July of 2023 does not  
change  my resolve  to  never use  Marijuana  again.” Answer at  2. Contrary to  
the  Judge’s  multiple  findings  that Applicant  submitted  no  updated  
Statement of Intent,  Applicant concluded  his Answer with  the  following  
signed attestation:  
I,  [Applicant], intend  to  abstain from  all  drug  involvement and  
substance  misuse,  acknowledging  that any  future  
involvement  is grounds for revocation  of  national security 
eligibility.   
Id. The record before us supports that the Judge did not consider the 
updated Statement of Intent in his mitigation analysis, which co nstitutes 
harmful error as it potentially impacted application of mitigating condition 
AG ¶ 26(b).2 
Sensitive Position: 
The  Judge’s  finding  that Applicant was employed  in a  “sensitive  
position” also   warrants discussion. The  Judge  found  that Applicant  was  
hired  “in  a  sensitive position  in  July 2022,   and  thereby concluded  that  
Applicant’s July 2023  marijuana  use  afforded  application  of disqualifying  
condition  AG  ¶  25(f).3 Decision at 7. The finding, however, is unsupported 
by the record. 
We  have  previously held that the  term  “sensitive position” does not   
encompass any and  all  employment with  a  defense  contractor, and  that “an  
individual  cannot  hold  an  initial sensitive  position  prior to  commencing  a  
background  investigation.” ISCR  Case  No.  22-02623  at 4  and  n.3  (App. Bd.  
Jan. 24,  2024) (“[A]n  individual  cannot  hold  a  national security position, to  
include  a  sensitive position, until they are found  eligible  to  do  so, which  
either requires favorable completion  of the  investigative  and  adjudicative  
processes or, in exceptional circumstances, may be  granted  on  a  temporary  
basis while the investigation is underway.”).  
Applicant’s initial background  investigation  began  with  his December 
2022  SCA  submission and  it was  erroneous  to  find  that  he held  a  sensitive  
2 AG  ¶  26(b)  - the  individual  acknowledges  his  or  her drug  involvement and  substance  misuse,  
provided  evidence  of actions  taken  to  overcome  this  problem, and  has  established  a  pattern  of  
abstinence, including, but not limited  to  . . . (3) providing  a  signed  statement of intent to  abstain  from  
all  drug  involvement and  substance  misuse, acknowledging  that any  future  involvement or misuse  is  
grounds for revocation of national  security eligibility.  
3 AG  ¶  25(f) –  any  illegal  drug  use  while  granted  access  to  classified  information  or holding  a  sensitive  
position.  
3 
 
 
                                      
 
 
 
 
          
          
        
             
   
 
 
       
        
       
           
        
  
 
  
position  prior to  that date. Moreover, although  Applicant could have  been  
granted  temporary eligibility while the  investigative  and  adjudicative  
processes were  ongoing, the  record is silent to  that matter and  there  is no  
basis to  conclude  that  he  held  a  sensitive position  at the  time  of his July  
2023  marijuana  use. To  the  contrary, the  record’s only evidence  regarding  
the  subject  is that Applicant did not  hold a  sensitive position  at the  time  of  
his marijuana  use. See  File of Relevant Material (FORM) Item  4  at 5; FORM  
Item 5  at 6.  
The  erroneous finding  that Applicant was employed  in a  sensitive  
position  was harmful in  that it formed  the  basis of the  Judge’s application  of  
AG ¶  25(f)  and  contributed  to  his conclusion  that Applicant’s “continued  use  
of marijuana  after July 2022  . . .  raises  questions about his judgment,  
reliability, and  willingness to   comply with   laws, rules, and  regulations.” 
Decision at 7.  
In light of the foregoing, the best resolution of this case is to remand  
it to  the  Judge  to  correct the  identified  errors and  for further  processing  
consistent with  the  Directive.  See  ISCR  Case  No.  22-01002  at 4  (App. Bd.  
Sep.  26,  2024)  (“[Remand]  is appropriate   when  the  legal  errors  can  be  
corrected  through  remand  and  there is a  significant chance  of reaching  a  
different result upon  correction,  such  as when  a  judge  fails to  consider  
relevant and  material evidence.”). Upon   remand, the  Judge  is required  to  
issue  a  new decision.  Directive ¶  E3.1.35. The  Board retains no  jurisdiction  
over a  remanded  decision; however, the  Judge’s decision  issued  after 
remand  may be  appealed pursuant to Directive ¶¶  E3.1.28 and E3.130.   
Findings of Fact  
In his Answer to t he SOR, Applicant , admitted with comments, the factual 
allegations pertaining to drug involvement and substance misuse (SOR ¶¶ 1.a. through 
1.d.). Applicant’s admissions and acknowledgments are incorporated herein. After a 
complete and thorough review of the evidence in the record, and upon due consideration 
of same, I make the following findings of fact: 
Background  
Applicant is a 25-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been serving 
as a software engineer since July 2022. He was previously self-employed as a part-time 
ice hockey referee (September 2018 – August 2022). A 2017 high school graduate , he 
received a bachelor’s degree in 2021. He has never served with the U.S. military. While 
he is sponsored for a security clearance or for a sensitive position , he has never held a 
security clearance. He has never been married. 
4 
 
 
                                      
 
 
      
         
            
      
          
    
 
   
        
         
      
     
          
          
            
         
 
      
          
             
       
             
      
           
 
 
        
   
          
          
    
                
        
     
 
           
       
         
            
           
      
  
 
    
       
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse, and Personal Conduct  
In his December 2022 SF 86, at Sec. 23 – Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity, 
Applicant candidly acknowledged that, during the last seven years, he had previously 
used a variety of “legal” and “illegal” substances and had misused a prescription drug . 
During his August 2023 OPM interview, he essentially confirmed his earlier admissions. 
Based on Applicant’s admissions and comments up until the date he submitted his SF 
86, the following facts have clearly been established: 
Applicant was an illegal substance user, and one of his substances of choice was 
tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) – also known as marijuana – a Schedule I Controlled 
Substance. From March 2018 through February 2022, he and several friends would make 
bulk purchases of marijuana every six to eight weeks at a local dispen sary in a state 
where it was legal. He smoked the marijuana in social settings with his friends at parties 
or merely hanging out in a dorm or apartment a few times per week during that time 
period, never expecting to work in a government job. At some point, he decided that the 
marijuana made him feel lazy and anxious, so he lost interest in it and stated that he had 
no interest or intent in using it again. (Item 3 at 31-32; Item 4 at 5, 9; Item 5 at 2-4) 
During the period April 2019 through September 2021, Applicant also 
“experimented” on fewer than 12 occasions , or approximately 12 times , by snorting 
powdered cocaine – a Schedule II Controlled Substance – that was furnished to him by 
one particular long-time friend. He used the cocaine in social settings because it was a 
pop culture drug known to be fun. Although the substance made him feel docile, he failed 
to experience the “fun” and instead he felt groggy and dazed. He stated that he does not 
intend to use cocaine in the future. (Item 2 at 2; Item 3 at 32-33; Item 4 at 5, 9; Item 5 at 
2, 4) 
During the period July 2019 through August 2019, Applicant “experimented” by 
using on two occasions 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine, also known as ecstasy – 
a Schedule I Controlled Substance – that was furnished to him by his long-time friend. 
His first use took place at a concert . Applicant anticipated that the substance would be 
enjoyable, but instead it made him feel more awake and not necessarily good. He stated 
that he does not intend to use ecstasy again because he did not like the way it made him 
feel, it hurt his stomach , made him feel groggy and dazed, and he did not like the way 
people on it acted. (Item 2 at 2; Item 3 at 33; Item 4 at 5, 9; Item 5 at 4, 8) 
On two occasions during final exams in May 2018 and during a midterm exam in 
November 2018, Applicant used the prescription drug Adderall, for which he did not have 
a prescription, while trying to focus for his exams. The drug was given to him without cost 
by a friend who had a prescription. The drug made him feel “wired and attentive, but he 
did not like the anxiety or feeling groggy and dazed the next day associated with it. He 
does not intend to use the drug ever again. (Item 2 at 2; Item 3 at 34; Item 4 at 5, 9; Item 
5 at 4, 8) 
In May 2022, Applicant underwent a drug test the result of which was negative for 
drugs. (Item 4 at 11) As noted above, when Applicant submitted his SF 86 in December 
5 
 
 
                                      
 
 
         
         
    
            
         
          
     
       
          
           
        
        
  
 
        
         
      
           
             
          
             
         
       
  
  
 
   
     
   
          
         
           
         
 
2022, he  clearly stated  that he  had  no  interest or intent in  using  marijuana  in the  future.  
In  July  2022,  he  became  an  employee  of a  federal contractor  whose  General Corporate  
Policy is to  have  a  substance-free  workplace  where prohibited  substances  such  as those  
specifically defined  as controlled  substances  under federal  law  are  prohibited.  (Item  5  at  
10-14)  During  his August 2023  OPM  interview, Applicant admitted  that on  July 22, 2023  
–  approximately a  year and  one-half  after he  stopped  using  marijuana  –  at  a  friend’s  
birthday  party  cookout, shortly after   a  “relationship  breakup,” he  “took a  hit” or smoked  
marijuana  out of a  vape  pen  that a  friend’s girlfriend  gave  him.  He claims he  immediately  
regretted  doing  so  because  of his commitment to  his job  and  the  country.  He said  he  
avoids any environment where marijuana  was used, and  that  his one-time  use  in 2023  
does not change  his resolve to  never use  marijuana  again. (Item  2  at 2; Item  4  at  4, 9;  
Item 5  at 2, 4)  
As I previously noted in my initial decision, at the closing of the record , with the 
exception of his repeated comments in his May 2024 Answer to the SOR, in his February 
2024 responses to the interrogatories, during his August 2023 OPM interview, and in his 
December 2022 SF 86, that he had no intention to ever use marijuana again in the future, 
Applicant had not submitted a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug 
involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future involvement or misuse 
is grounds for revocation of national security eligibility ; and had not submitted verifiable 
proof that he had disassociated himself from drug-providing associates. Although offering 
such commentary in response to the FORM would have been a perfect opportunity to do 
so, Applicant chose instead to be silent. There is no evidence to indicate that Applicant 
ever reported his marijuana use to his employer’s security manager or to anyone else 
where he worked . He has never received counseling or treatment associated with his 
drug use. (Item 4 at 10) 
With respect to the Appeal Board’s position on Applicant’s Statement of Intent, I 
am not fixated on a physical document but rather on Applicant’s overall position. In his 
December 2022 SF 86 he wrote that he would no longer use marijuana, claiming that he 
last did so in February 2022. Nevertheless, despite his written declaration, in July 2023, 
he resumed his use of marijuana on one brief occasion. More recently, he repeated his 
earlier intention to abstain from all drug involvement and substance misuse during his 
OPM interview, in his interrogatories, and in his Answer to the SOR. In addition, he offered 
no verifiable proof that he had disassociated himself from drug-providing associates such 
as his friend’s girlfrien d at a birthday cookout in July 2023. Although the Appeal Board 
determined that I did not consider Applicant’s “updated Statement of Intent,” I did consider 
it but gave it much less weight since he had already violated his initial declared promise. 
Regarding the Appeal Board’s determination that I found that Applicant was hired 
in a “sensitive position” in July 2022. That interpretation is inaccurate for in my Findings 
of Fact I merely noted that Applicant had been serving as a software engineer since July 
2022, and I made no determination that he was in a “sensitive position.” The confusion 
arose not because of my finding but because of an error in applying a disqualifying 
condition in my analysis. The Appeal Board is correct in that Applicant was no t in a 
sensitive position at the time. Nevertheless, while he may not have been in a sensitive 
position, Applicant had already submitted his SF 86 to commence the security clearance 
6 
 
 
                                      
 
        
  
 
 
 
       
       
   
        
        
      
      
        
          
      
     
     
      
    
         
 
 
       
        
         
     
    
       
           
 
 
  
 
 
          
        
       
          
         
      
          
 
  
eligibility process, and that was a factor in analyzing Applicant’s overall future intent and 
security clearance eligibility. 
Policies 
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion of the Executive 
Branch in regulating access to information pertaining to national security emphasizing, 
“no one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” (Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 
518, 528 (1988) ) As Commander in Chief, t he President has t he authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual 
is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information. T he President has 
authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant an applicant eligibility for 
access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly consistent with the 
national interest to do so.” (Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended and modified.) 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, t he 
administrative judge must consider t he guidelines in SEAD 4 . In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, t he guidelines list potentially disqualifying 
conditions and mitigating conditions, which are used in evaluating an applicant’s eligibility 
for access to classified information. 
An administrative judge need not view t he guidelines as inflexible, ironclad rules 
of law. Instead, acknowledging the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with t he factors listed in t he adjudicative process. T he 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
decision. The entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of several variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” T he administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable, and unfavorable, in making a 
meaningful decision. 
In  the  decision-making  process,  facts  must be  established  by “substantial   
evidence.”  “Substantial evidence  [is] such  relevant evidence  as a  reasonable mind  might  
accept  as adequate  to  support a  conclusion  in  light of all  contrary evidence  in the  record.”  
(ISCR  Case  No. 04-11463  at 2  (App. Bd.  Aug. 4,  2006) (citing  Directive ¶  E3.1.32.1)).  
“Substantial evidence”  is “more than  a  scintilla but less than  a  preponderance.”  (See  v.  
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth., 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th  Cir. 1994))  
The Government initially has t he burden of producing evidence to establish a 
potentially disqualifying condition under the Directive and has the burden of establishing 
controverted facts alleged in t he SOR. Once the Government has produced substantial 
evidence of a disqualifying condition, under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant has t he 
burden of persuasion to present evidence in refutation, explanation, extenuation, or 
mitigation, sufficient to overcome t he doubts raised by t he Government’s case. T he 
burden of disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to t he Government. (See ISCR 
Case No. 02-31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005)) 
7 
 
 
                                      
 
         
   
   
          
        
      
     
      
    
      
 
 
 
 
        
          
 
 
   
   
 
 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters a fiduciary relationship 
with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship transcends 
normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours as well. It is because of this 
special relationship that t he Government must be able to repose a high degree of trust 
and confidence in those individuals to whom it grants access to classified information. 
Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of t he possible risk t he applicant may 
deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. Such decisions entail 
a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to potential, rat her than actual, 
risk of compromise of classified information. Furt hermore, “security clearance 
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” (Egan, at 531) 
Clearance  decisions must be  “in  terms of the  national interest  and  shall  in no  sense  
be  a  determination  as  to  the  loyalty  of  the  applicant concerned.”  (See  Exec. Or. 10865 §  
7) Thus, nothing  in  this decision  should be  construed  to  suggest that I have  based  this  
decision, in whole or in part, on  any express  or implied  determination  as to  Applicant’s  
allegiance, loyalty, or patriotism. It is merely  an  indication  the  Applicant has or has not  
met  the  strict guidelines the  President and  the  Secretary of  Defense  have  established  for  
issuing  a  clearance.  In  reaching  this decision, I have  drawn  only those  conclusions that  
are reasonable, logical, and  based  on  the  evidence  contained  in the  record. Likewise,  I  
have  avoided  drawing inferences grounded on mere speculation  or conjecture.  
Analysis  
Guideline  H, Drug Involvement  and Substance  Misuse  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Drug Involvement and Substance 
Abuse is set out in AG ¶ 24: 
The  illegal use  of controlled  substances,  to  include  the  misuse  of  
prescription  and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances 
that  cause  physical or mental impairment  or are  used  in a  manner  
inconsistent with  their  intended  purpose  can  raise  questions about an  
individual's reliability and  trustworthiness, both  because  such  behavior may  
lead  to  physical or psychological impairment and  because  it raises  
questions about  a  person's ability or  willingness to  comply  with  laws,  rules,  
and  regulations. Controlled  substance  means  any "controlled  substance"  as  
defined  in 21  U.S.C. 802. Substance  misuse  is the  generic term  adopted  in  
this guideline  to  describe any of the behaviors listed above.  
Furthermore, on October 25, 2014, the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) 
issued Memorandum ES 2014-00674, Adherence to Federal Laws Prohibiting Marijuana 
Use, which states: 
[C]hanges  to  state  laws and  the  laws of  the  District of Columbia pertaining  
to  marijuana  use  do  not alter the  existing  National Security Adjudicative  
Guidelines (Reference  H and  I). An  individual's disregard of federal law 
pertaining  to  the  use, sale,  or manufacture of marijuana  remains  
8 
 
 
                                      
 
 
 
 
 
         
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
        
      
      
          
        
       
          
           
      
         
adjudicatively relevant  in national security determinations.  As  always,  
adjudicative  authorities are expected  to  evaluate  claimed  or developed  use  
of,  or involvement with, marijuana  using  the  current adjudicative  criteria.  
The  adjudicative authority must determine  if the  use  of,  or involvement with,  
marijuana  raises questions about the  individual's judgment,  reliability,  
trustworthiness, and  willingness to  comply with  law,  rules,  and  regulations,  
including  federal laws, when  making  eligibility decisions of persons  
proposed for, or occupying, sensitive national security positions.  
In  addition, on  December 21, 2021, the  DNI issued  Memorandum  ES  2021-01529, 
Security Executive  Agent Clarifying  Guidance  Concerning  Marijuana  for Agencies  
Conducting  Adjudications of Persons Proposed  for Eligibility for Access to  Classified  
Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position, which states  in part:  
. . . disregard  of federal law pertaining  to  marijuana  remains relevant,  but  
not determinative,  to  adjudications  of  eligibility for access to  classified  
information  or eligibility to hold a sensitive position….  
Additionally, in  light of the  long-standing  federal law and  policy prohibiting  
illegal drug  use  while occupying  a  sensitive  position  or holding  a  security  
clearance, agencies  are  encouraged  to  advise  prospective  national  security 
workforce employees that they should refrain from  any future marijuana  use  
upon  initiation  of the  national security vetting  process, which  commences  
once  the  individual signs the  certification  contained  in the  Standard  Form  
86 (SF 86), Questionnaire for National Security Positions.  
The guideline notes several conditions under AG ¶ 25 that could raise security 
concerns in this case: 
(a) any substance  mis use (see above  definition);   
(c)  illegal possession of a controlled substance, including . . . purchase;  
and  
(g) expressed intent to continue drug involvement and substance misuse, 
or failure to clearly and convincingly commit to discontinue such misuse. 
Commencing as far back as March 2018, and continuing periodically until as 
recently as July 2023, Applicant legally and illegally purchased, as well as used, 
marijuana, purportedly “experimented” with cocaine on about a dozen occasions , 
experimented with ecsta sy twice, and also used a prescription drug that was not 
prescribed for him. His “experimentation” with cocaine took place between April 2019 and 
September 2021 but was never continued thereafter. His experimentation with ecstasy 
took place during a two-month period in 2019 but was not continued thereafter. His illegal 
use of the prescription drug Adderall, for which he did not have a prescription, took place 
on two occasions in 2018 but was never continued thereafter. His marijuana use, though 
paused for over a year and one-half, resumed in July 2023 after he had submitted his SF 
9 
 
 
                                      
 
          
     
      
          
         
         
           
    
 
 
          
 
 
 
    
      
     
      
        
      
   
  
 
          
        
        
        
      
        
      
          
            
 
 
       
        
86 in December 2022 and after he was hired by an employer with a drug free workplace 
in July 2022. Applicant’s continued use of marijuana after July 2022, and especially after 
he submitted his SF 86, raises questions about his judgment, reliability, and willingness 
to comply with laws, rules, and regulations. See ISCR Case No. 22-02132 at 4 (App. Bd. 
Oct. 27, 2023); ISCR Case No. 23 -00093 at 3 (App. Bd. Nov. 21, 2023). Applicant was 
aware that marijuana use was illegal federally, and against his corporate policy, even if it 
was legal in his state, but he used it at least one more time. See ISCR Case No. 20-02974 
at 6 (App. Bd. Feb. 1, 2022); ISCR Case No. 14-03450 at 3 (App. Bd. Sep. 11, 2015). 
Applicant’s comments regarding  future  use  of  marijuana  creates  some  confusion  
regarding  his  true  intentions.  He  initially  intended  never  to  use  it  again,  but after  a  one  
and  one-half year period  of purported  abstinence, he  resumed  it once  again, however  
briefly. His repeated  “no  intent”  comments  and  resumption  of  such  use,  even  one  time,  
reflects  an  equivocation  or  failure to clearly and  convincingly  commit to discontinue such  
misuse. Even  if he  reinstates his initial intention, because  he  has already violated  that  
declared  intention  once, his renewed  statement of intent is decreased  in weight.  AG ¶¶  
25(a),  25(c), and 25(g) have been  established.  
The guideline also includes examples of conditions under AG ¶ 26 that could 
mitigate security concerns arising from Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or happened  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur or does  not cast  doubt  
on  the  individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  judgment;  and  
(b) the individual acknowledges his or her drug involvement and substance 
misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and 
has established a pattern of abstinence, including, but not limited to: (1) 
disassociation from drug -using as sociates and contacts; (2) changing or 
avoiding the environment where drugs were used; and (3) providing a 
signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug involvement and 
substance misuse, acknowledging that any future involvement or misuse is 
grounds for revocation of national security eligibility. 
As noted above, in his December 2022 SF 86 Applicant wrote that he would no 
longer use marijuana, claiming that he last did so in February 2022. Nevertheless, despite 
his written declaration, in July 2023, he resumed his use of marijuana on one brief 
occasion. More recently, he repeated his earlier intention to abstain from all drug 
involvement and substance misuse during his OPM interview, in his interrogatories, and 
in his Answer to the SOR. He offered no verifiable proof that he had disassociated himself 
from drug-providing associates such as his friend’s girlfriend at a birthday cookout in July 
2023. I consider ed Applicant’s renewed statements of intent but gave them much less 
weight since he had already violated his initial declared promise. AG ¶ 26(b) has not been 
established. 
It is clear that from about March 2016 and continuing until at least September 2021, 
Applicant was imbedded in an environment where drug use thrived. Applicant essentially 
10 
 
 
                                      
 
        
      
      
         
          
            
 
         
           
         
        
        
           
   
 
 
         
      
       
   
  
         
      
      
        
      
     
   
  
 
       
       
       
   
           
                 
  
        
       
           
       
       
         
          
     
      
became a regular marijuana user and a frequent cocaine user . His use of ecstasy and 
Adderall was fairly limited , and by now, stale. With respect to his past involvement with 
cocaine, ecstasy, and Adderall, AG ¶ 26(a) has been established. However, with respect 
his past purchase and use of marijuana, and his resumption of such use after he had 
accepted his corporate position, submitted his SF 86, and repeatedly declared he had no 
intention of using marijuana again, but then did so, AG ¶ 26(a) has not been established. 
A person should not be held forever accountable for misconduct from the past. 
Continued abstinence is to be encouraged, but, when balanced against his full history of 
drug use, especially his marijuana use, the resumption of his marijuana use after a 
relatively brief period of purported abstinence is considered insufficient to conclude that 
the abstinence will continue , especially after so much confusion regarding his future 
intentions. Applicant’s use of marijuana for such a lengthy period, continues to cast doubt 
on his current reliability, trustworthiness, and good judgment. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under t he whole-person concept, t he administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all t he circumstances. The administrative judge should consider t he nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at SEAD 4, App. A, ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Under SEAD 4, App. A, ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole -person concept. Moreover, I have 
evaluated the various aspects of this case considering the totality of the record evidence 
and have not merely performed a piecemeal analysis. (See U.S. v. Bottone , 365 F.2d 
389, 392 (2d Cir. 1966); See also ISCR Case No. 03-22861 at 2-3 (App. Bd. Jun. 2, 2006)) 
My comments associated with Applicant’s drug involvement and substance misuse 
are incorporated herein. Applicant is a relatively young employee of a defense contractor 
for which he has been serving as a software engineer since July 2022. While in college 
he experimented with some illegal substances, periodically used other illegal substances 
or used a prescribed medication that was not prescribed for him, and regularly purchased 
and used marijuana , something that was legal in the state where he was located . The 
college-based drug culture was acceptable to him because he never expected to work in 
a government job. He was hired by a government contractor with a drug-free workplace, 
and he candidly acknowledged his past involvement in drug involvement and substance 
11 
 
 
                                      
 
          
        
     
        
   
 
      
     
          
         
 
 
        
    
 
      
 
        
 
   
   
 
            
       
 
 
 
                                      
            
 
 
__________________________ 
misuse and pledged to never u se those substances in the future. If the facts had ended 
at that point, Applicant would probably not be currently having his eligibility for a security 
clearance questioned. However, the story continued when he resumed using marijuana, 
even on one occasion. That resumption raised a degree of equivocation surrounding his 
future intent regarding using marijuana. 
Overall, the evidence leaves me with substantial questions and doubts as to 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance . For all these reasons, I 
conclude Applicant has failed to mitigate the security concerns arising from h is drug 
involvement and substance abuse. See SEAD 4, App. A, ¶¶ 2(d) (1) through AG 2(d) (9). 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  H: AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  1.a.: Against Applicant 
Subparagraphs  1.b.  through 1.d.:  For Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance.  Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
ROBERT ROBINSON GALES 
Administrative Judge 
12 