 
                                                                                                                    
          
           
             
 
 
 
    
  
                  
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
      
     
        
       
     
         
     
    
 
        
         
      
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-01471 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Cassie Ford, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
02/19/2025 
Decision 
GOLDSTEIN, Jennifer I., Administrative Judge: 
This case involves security concerns raised under Guideline F (Financial 
Considerations). Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on July 31, 2023. On 
October 29, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency Consolidated 
Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS ) sent her a Statement of Reasons (SOR) alleging 
security concerns under Guideline F. The DCSA CAS acted under Executive Order (EO) 
10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as 
amended; Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel 
Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the 
adjudicative guidelines (AG) implemented by the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
Applicant timely answered the SOR on November 12 , 2024 , and requested a 
decision based on the written record in lieu of a hearing. On January 3, 2025 , the 
Government sent Applicant a complete copy of its written case, a file of relevant material 
 
 
 
 
 
      
         
    
               
           
  
 
 
         
       
 
 
      
            
        
         
       
         
    
        
          
  
          
      
          
          
           
          
 
          
          
    
       
      
 
(FORM), including pleadings and evidentiary documents identified as Items 1 through 8. 
She was given an opportunity to submit a documentary response setting forth objections, 
rebuttal, extenuation, mitigation, or explanation to the Government’s evidence. She 
received the FORM on January 27, 2025. She was given 30 days to submit a response 
to the FORM. She submitted a response on February 1, 2025 (Response). The case was 
assigned to me on February 13, 2025. 
Evidentiary Matters  
Items 1 through 4 contain the pleadings in the case and are part of the record . 
Items 5 through 8 are admitted into evidence without objections , as is Applicant’s 
Response. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 57-year-old employee of a government contractor. She earned a 
bachelor’s degree in 2005 and a diploma from another program in 2013. She has worked 
for her current employer since July 2023, but is currently on leave without pay . She also 
identified a second employer, who she has been working for in customer service since 
2019. She listed unemployment in January 2007 to January 2008, July 2014 to February 
2015, February 2017, August 2017 through February 2019, and August 2019. She served 
on active duty in the Navy from 1987 to 1995. (GE 5; Response) 
The SOR alleged Applicant is indebted on five delinquent debts in the total amount 
of $46,411. She admitted the debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a -1.c, but denied SOR ¶¶ 1.d 
and 1.e. The debts are as follows: 
SOR ¶ 1.a alleged that Applicant was indebted on a charged -off account in the 
amount of $ 38,726. This debt was for a second mortgage in the original amount of 
$56,000. Applicant noted in her Response that she has tried to get the company to send 
her “payment slips” but they chose to charge off the debt. She suggested that the 
company may have written the debt off as a loss, but she presented no 1099-C or other 
documentation to show the debt was canceled. This debt is unresolved. (GE 6, GE 7, GE 
8; Response) 
SOR ¶ 1.b alleged that Applicant was indebted on a charged -off account in the 
amount of $3,968. She used this card for general purposes like food and clothing. This 
debt has been past due since at least May 2018. This debt is unresolved. (GE 6, GE 7 
SOR ¶ 1.c alleged that Applicant was indebted on a charged -off credit card in the 
amount of $3,257. This debt has been past due since at least March 2018. This debt is 
unresolved. (GE 6, GE 7 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
      
         
           
        
     
        
          
             
  
        
          
    
 
 
 
       
          
           
       
       
      
       
 
       
        
 
         
      
        
    
 
           
   
         
      
         
    
 
 
        
              
Applicant opened multiple student-loan accounts in 2013 to finance her diploma. 
SOR ¶ 1.d alleged that Applicant was $285 past due on a student loan debt totaling 
$2,330. SOR ¶ 1.e alleged that Applicant was $175 past due on a second student loan 
debt totaling $1,625. Her monthly payments on these two student loans were set at $36 
per month and $22 per month, respectively . However, Applicant explained that these 
debts were now held by another creditor and that they are in good standing. The 2024 
credit report reflects student loans taken the same amounts in the same months as those 
alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.d and 1.e . Their status is “pays as agreed.” These debts are being 
resolved. (GE 6, GE 7, Response) 
Applicant’s Response reflects that she has had a clearance since 1988. She claims 
to have had “no issues.” She admits that she had financial problems during her periods 
of unemployment , but contests that that reflects on her reliability and trustworthiness . 
(Response) 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
decision. An a dministrative judge must consider all available and reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
          
      
  
 
    
    
        
       
            
          
         
       
      
     
       
         
        
         
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
 
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant 
has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have 
established for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for acc ess to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan at 531. Substantial 
evidence is “such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to 
support a conclusion in light of all the contrary evidence in the same record.” See ISCR 
Case No. 17 -04166 at 3 (App. Bd. Mar. 21, 2019) It is “less than the weight of the 
evidence, and the possibility of drawing two inconsistent conclusions from the evidence 
does not prevent [a Judge’s] finding from being supported by substantial evidence.” 
Consolo v. Federal Maritime Comm’n, 383 U.S. 607, 620 (1966). “Substantial evidence” 
is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. Washington Metro. Area 
Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines presume a nexus or 
rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria listed therein and 
an applicant’s security suitability. ISCR Case No. 15-01253 at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 20, 2016). 
 Once  the  Government establishes a  disqualifying  condition  by substantial 
evidence, the  burden  shifts to  the  applicant  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or mitigate  the  
facts.  Directive ¶  E3.1.15. An  applicant has  the  burden  of proving  a  mitigating  condition,  
and  the  burden  of  disproving  it never shifts  to  the  Government. See  ISCR  Case  No. 02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005).  
An applicant “has the ultimate burden  of demonstrating  that it is clearly consistent  
with the national interest to grant or continue  his security clearance.”  ISCR Case No. 01-
20700  at 3  (App. Bd. Dec.  19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance  determinations should  err, if 
they must, on the side  of denials.” Egan  at 531.   
Analysis  
Guideline F, Financial Considerations  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Financial Considerations is set 
out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to  live  within  one's means, satisfy debts, and  meet financial  
obligations may indicate  poor self-control, lack of judgment,  or  
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise  
questions about an  individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and  ability to  
protect  classified  or  sensitive information.  Financial distress can  also be  
caused  or  exacerbated  by, and  thus can  be  a  possible  indicator of,  other  
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
 
 
 
 
          
     
 
     
   
 
 
 
         
 
 
 
issues of  personnel security concern  such  as  excessive gambling, mental  
health  conditions, substance  misuse, or alcohol abuse  or dependence. An  
individual who  is financially overextended  is at greater risk of having  to  
engage  in  illegal  or  otherwise questionable acts  to  generate  funds.  
Affluence  that cannot be  explained  by known  sources of income  is  also a  
security concern insofar as it may result from  criminal activity, including  
espionage.  
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise sec urity concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. Two are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) inability to satisfy debts;  and  
(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations. 
Since 2018 , Applicant has had financial delinquencies that she was unable to 
resolve. The evidence is sufficient to raise these disqualifying conditions. 
AG ¶ 20 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. I considered 
all of the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 including: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or occurred  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur and  does not  cast doubt  
on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;  
(b) the  conditions  that resulted  in the  financial problem  were  largely  beyond  
the  person's control  (e.g.,  loss of  employment,  a  business downturn,  
unexpected  medical emergency,  a  death,  divorce  or separation, clear  
victimization  by predatory lending  practices, or identity  theft), and  the  
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;  and  
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good -faith effort to repay 
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts. 
A  security clearance  adjudication  is an  evaluation  of an  individual’s judgment,   
reliability,  and  trustworthiness.  It  is not  a  debt-collection  procedure. ISCR  Case  No.  
0902160  (App. Bd. Jun. 21, 2010). The  adjudicative guidelines do  not require  that an  
individual make  payment on  all  delinquent debts simultaneously, pay the  debts alleged  in  
the  SOR first, or establish  resolution  of every  debt alleged  in the  SOR. He or she  need  
only establish  a  plan  to  resolve financial problems and  take  significant actions to  
implement the plan. See ISCR Case No. 07-06482 at 2-3 (App. Bd.  May 21, 2008).  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
      
           
  
 
     
       
        
       
        
  
    
 
     
       
          
          
          
 
 
 
       
     
    
         
         
           
   
 
 
       
  
 
 
Applicant’s student loans listed in SOR ¶¶ 1.d and 1.e are currently paid as agreed. 
She has demonstrated a good -faith effort to address those two accounts. AG ¶ 20( d) 
provides mitigation for their past delinquencies. 
Applicant has not demonstrated a plan to resolve the delinquencies listed in SOR 
¶¶ 1.a -1.c. While she has had significant periods of unemployment, her last listed 
unemployment was in 2019 . She presented no documentation of her efforts to resolve 
these debts. I find that Applicant’s finances cast doubt on her current reliability, 
trustworthiness, and judgment. AG ¶¶ 20(a), 20(b), and 20(d) are not established with 
respect to SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.c. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether the granting or continuing 
of national security eligibility is clearly consistent with the interests of national security 
must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration of the 
adjudicative guidelines, each of which is to be evaluated in the context of the whole 
person. An administrative judge should consider the nine adjudicative process factors 
listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  
and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct;  
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.  
I have incorporated my comments under Guideline F in my whole-person analysis, 
and I have considered the factors in AG ¶ 2(d). I considered Applicant’s explanations for 
her delinquencies, including significant periods of unemployment, as well as her long 
history of service to the United States as a military member and government contractor . 
After weighing the disqualifying and mitigating conditions under Guideline F and 
evaluating all the evidence in the context of the whole person, I conclude that Applica nt 
has not mitigated the security concerns raised under Financial Considerations. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as required by Section 
E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline F:   AGAINST  APPLICANT  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
     
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subparagraphs  1.a-1.c:  Against  Applicant  
Subparagraphs  1.d-1.e:  For Applicant  
Conclusion  
I conclude that it is not clearly consistent with the interests of national security to 
grant Applicant eligibility for access to classified information. Clearance is denied. 
Jennifer I. Goldstein 
Administrative Judge 
7 