  
 
 
      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
DEFENSE  OFFICE  OF  HEARINGS  AND  APPEALS  
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                            
In  the  matter  of:  )  
                                                                       )  
                                                                                   )                    ISCR  Case  No.  24-01789  
                                                                       )  
Applicant  for  Security  Clearance                     )  
    Appearances  
 
       
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
       
         
         
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
   
    
  
   
       
For Gover
nment: Rhett E. Petcher, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
09/15/2025 
Decision  
HALE, Charles C., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant mitigated the security concerns under Guideline G, alcohol consumption, 
but he did not mitigate the security concerns under Guidelines F, financial considerations 
and J, criminal conduct. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of  the  Case  
On December 11, 2024, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement 
of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline F, Guideline 
J, and Guideline G. Applicant responded (Answer) to the SOR on December 18, 2024, 
and requested a hearing before an administrative judge. The case was assigned to me 
on June 5, 2025. 
The hearing was convened as scheduled on August 14, 2025, and reconvened 
again on August 21, 2025. Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 7 were admitted in 
evidence without objection. Applicant testified and submitted Applicant Exhibits (AE) A 
through D, which were admitted without objection. I held the record open until September 
11, 2025, and received GE 8 through 10 and AE E, which were admitted without objection. 
1 
  
 
 
 
      
        
       
    
       
   
  
 
 
      
    
   
   
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
   
  
   
  
  
 
 
   
     
      
   
      
    
   
I received the transcripts  (Tr.) on  August 25, 2025,  and August  29, 2025.  The  August  25th  
transcript  will be identified as  “1Tr” and  the August  29th  transcript will identified as “2Tr.”  
in the  decision.   
Fi
ndings  of  Fact  
Applicant is a 24- year-old employee of a government contractor. He has worked 
as an hourly full-time employee for his current employer since May 2023. His hourly rate 
is between $31 and $35. He typically accrues around 16 hours of overtime after 
completing his regular 40 hours. He estimates he brings in $6,000 a month. Prior to joining 
his sponsor, he worked as a customer service specialist from 2020 to 2023 and earned 
around $2,800 monthly. From 2018 to 2020 he worked as a sales associate for a major 
discount store, earning about $1,200 a month. He worked various other parttime jobs in 
addition to his fulltime positions including as a security guard until he was fired after the 
incident alleged in SOR ¶ 2.a. (1Tr. 17-33; GE1.) 
Applicant is single, and his mother and another sibling live with him . His sibling is 
disabled and does not work and has not applied for financial benefits. His mother 
contributes about $1,000 to his $2,000 rent. When the hearing reconvened, he stated he 
was paying $1,300 in rent and had a $600 car payment. He has always lived with family, 
aside from the period involving SOR ¶ 1.r. (1Tr. 17-19, 52-53; Answer; GE 1; 2Tr. 50-52.) 
Applicant in his Answer denied without explanation SOR ¶¶ 1.e, 1.l, 1.n, 1.p, 1.r, 
and 1.s and admits the other Guideline F allegations. He denied without explanation the 
incident that forms the Guideline J allegation and cross-alleged under Guideline G. 
(Answer.) 
Financial  
Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b, which are unpaid credit cards. The credit 
cards alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b were used for daily living expenses. (Tr. 44; GE 7.) 
He admitted SOR ¶ 1.c, which is an unpaid personal loan, and he did not cite a particular 
reason for the loan. ( 1Tr. 45.) He admitted SOR ¶ 1. d, which arose from a service that 
involves day-to-day purchases. He explained that he could make “payments on smaller 
things in payment forms” by splitting a purchase into four payments. He did not know this 
debt was on his credit report until he received the SOR. (1Tr. 45-46.) Applicant admitted 
SOR ¶¶ 1.f through 1.k and testified that he had not paid or taken steps to resolve them. 
(1Tr. 61-62; 2Tr 47; GE 2-3.) 
Applicant denied SOR ¶ 1.l in his Answer, which alleged he was indebted to the 
creditor for a judgment obtained against him in March 2024 in the approximate amount of 
$640. As of the date of the SOR the judgment remained unpaid, and a garnishment was 
pending against him. Upon reflection he stated he “mixed up” debts, and now he admits 
he still owe s this debt. He submitted a statement that he had been in contact with the 
creditor but had yet to receive an email from the creditor. (1Tr. 63-64; 2Tr. 45-46; AE E.) 
Applicant admitted SOR ¶ 1.m, 1.o, and 1.q and that he had not paid or taken steps to 
resolve these debts. (1Tr. 64, 66.) He initially denied SOR ¶ 1.p in his Answer, which 
2 
  
 
 
 
 
    
 
  
 
   
  
  
    
  
  
   
    
    
  
   
  
 
 
   
   
   
 
alleged he was indebted to  the  creditor for an account  placed for collection by a bank in  
the approximate amount of $444,  and as  of the date of SOR, the account remained 
delinquent.  Upon reflection he stated,  “yeah, no, I  don't  think that  one's paid.”  (1Tr. 63-
64; GE 2-3.)  
Applicant denie d  SOR ¶ 1.e,  which alleged he was indebted to creditor for an  
account placed for collection by  a bank  in the approximate amount  of $679,  and as  of the  
date of  SOR, the account remained  delinquent.  In his  initial testimony on the August  14th, 
he explained that he had reached out to the credit card company after the SOR was  
issued and resolved  the debt. He explained that he did not have the resources to pay the  
debt  prior to the SOR.  He stated he had “personal things [he] had to take care of.”   When 
the hearing reconvened,  he confirmed the debt remained unpaid.  (1Tr. 60-61; 2Tr.  45-47; 
GE 2-3.)  
A
pplicant denied SOR ¶ 1.n, which alleged he was indebted to a utility company 
for an account that had been placed in collection for $403. He testified he had paid this 
debt and cited being a current client of the utility company. (1Tr. 64-65.) When the hearing 
reconvened, he again asserted he had paid off the debt and provided an August 29, 2024 
payment receipt,  AE A, to support his testimony. This debt is resolved. (2Tr. 7; GE 2-3.)  
Applicant denied SOR ¶ 1.r, which alleged he was indebted to a realty company 
for a judgment that had been obtained against him in November 2022, in the approximate 
amount of $2,466. The judgment arose from a writ of eviction issued against him in 
December 2022. He admitted he was evicted in December 2022 because he could not 
“pull up [his] portion of the rent.” (GE 4; 1Tr. 66-67.) When the hearing reconvened, he 
testified to AE D, which was a ledger that showed a balance owed. Applicant had 
transferred money by a payment platform to his roommate to resolve some of the 
apartment debts. (2Tr. 58-59.) He stated, “I thought it was paid off. I was [not] made aware 
that it was not fully paid off until I got the ledger.” Later in his testimony he stated, “I didn't 
even know that there was still an ongoing balance on it until I actually looked at the ledger 
yesterday, I believe.” (2Tr. 13, 59.) He stated he had been sending regular payments to 
his roommate to resolve the account from 2023 to 2024. (2Tr. 59- 61.) The ledger does 
show payments in 2023. (2Tr. 61.) He acknowledged he did not have any documents that 
showed there no longer was a judgment against him for over $2,000. (2Tr. 14.) He last 
communicated with the co-defendant, his roommate, in February 2025, and they have 
since blocked each other. (2Tr. 56-57.) SOR ¶ 1.q also relates to the apartment. 
Applicant denied SOR ¶ 1. s,  which alleged he was  indebted to a General District  
Court for  a  $250 fine and $271 in court costs assessed against  him involving his  May 
2023  Driving Under the Influence of Alcohol  (DUI) arrest and subsequent conviction (SOR 
¶ 2.a). His fine/costs were past  due as of October  2023  when he was found guilty. (GE 5-
6.) He  stated,  “anything with my DUI has paid off. ”  (1Tr.  67.) When the h earing  
reconvened, he testified to AE B, which was taken from the General District Court’s  
website. It showed he had paid off  the fine and court costs in January 2025.  When asked  
why he had chosen to pay  off the debt  in January 2025 he responded,  “[t]here was no 
honest reason why I paid it. I just paid it.”  (2Tr. 8;  AE B.)  He denied  paying it  off because  
of the December 2024 SOR. (2Tr.  9.) He explained, “[r]ealistically  speaking,  I've been 
3 
  
    
     
     
   
    
       
    
 
    
 
 
 
    
    
     
     
   
 
  
 
    
   
  
 
  
 
    
  
 
 
 
    
    
 
     
       
 
   
paying off a lot of debts, because I've been trying to get my credit together to buy a house. 
So, I've been trying to get some things off within the last year.” (2Tr. 9.) He acknowledges 
he was aware the fine and court costs were due in January of 2024. (2Tr. 44.) As a result 
of his arrest, he did not make his security guard shift and was fired. He testified he was 
unaware if his former employer had a prohibition on security guards showing up to work 
with alcohol in their system. (Tr. 45.) The Government stipulated that Applicant's 
information provided vis-a-vis his payment of the fines and cost was accurate. (2Tr. 62.) 
Applicant indicated he was behind one payment for a loan that was not listed on 
the SOR. He had missed a payment and stated he did not have the money to make the 
payment. He had been communicating with the creditor to make a payment. He estimated 
he owed $2,500 on the loan. He had taken the loan out purchase a car. He needed the 
loan to make a down payment on the car. He testified he is not behind on his actual car 
loan. (1Tr. 68, 2Tr. 15 -18.) He offered AE C to show that he had handled a debt, not 
alleged, responsibly. He explained, “[b]ut, also, I did want to give you the information, 
because it was one of my cards that was closed. And, I wanted to provide like, hey, I did 
pay this, one of my cards off.” (2Tr. 12.) 
Applicant estimated after he paid his rent and car insurance and other expenses 
he had between $1,800 and $2,500 leftover. When asked what he did with his leftover 
funds, he noted he had “been on a few trips.” He traveled to Europe and Central America. 
When asked why he elected to take these trips , vice paying back his creditors, he 
responded, “I can't give an explanation of why.” (2Tr. 21-22.) 
Applicant acknowledged he had not filed his 2024 income tax returns. He cited the 
commercial software he used for why he had not filed his Federal or state income tax 
returns. He had a side job, and he stated he did not have the tax form the software wanted 
to file his return electronically. (2Tr. 22-25.) 
DUI  and Alcohol  
Applicant  denied the al legation that  he was arrested i n  April 2023  and charged  with 
driving  under the influence (DUI)  drugs  and f ound guilty  in October  2023 of  the amended  
charge of  DUI of  alcohol.  His denial was  based on  not  having drugs in his system.  (2Tr.  
27-28.) The i ncident  arose after  he had been drinking at  a  friend’s  house.  He testified “I 
just had a shot, that's it.” He thought it was cognac taken from a traditional shot glass.  He  
estimated he took the shot  at around 9 p.m.  He was supposed to be at work  at  around 11  
p.m. He acknowledged  he was in a hurry to get to work.  He  noted it  was raining out  and  
that he could not see the parked car 
 that he struck.  He acknowledged that  alcohol may  
have contributed to him hitting the car.  (GE 5-6; 2Tr.  29,  31  34-36.)   
A
pplicant argued he “was only 0.2, 0.02 above the legal limit. In most states it's 
0.10, in most states it's just not in my state. ” The Government offered GE 8 to show the 
typical effects of alcohol at the various BAC levels, as well as the applicable state statutes. 
(2Tr. 29; GE 8-10.) Applicant kept describing his blood alcohol as very low. He stated: 
Because if you look up a BAC chart, an alcohol limit can go up to one. So, 
4 
  
      
    
      
   
      
   
     
 
   
  
 
    
   
 
 
  
    
    
   
 
   
 
 
  
    
    
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
    
       
   
  
    
      
 
 
 
  
compared to a 1.0 or a 2.0, my alcohol level was very low. You can legally 
drive in most states at a 0.08 and a 0.10. This in my state, it can't be above 
a 0.08. That's why I mentioned it, that it was low. And, they were debating 
in court, and they were about to drop the whole entire charge just because 
of how low it was. The only reason why they did not drop it was because of 
the fact that it was domesticated because I had hit a car. That's the only 
reason why. And, it was a parked vehicle. (2Tr. 30.) 
Applicant was adamant that about not consuming more than one shot that night: 
It was just one shot. My alcohol level was very low. It was just one shot. It 
was a 0.10. If you look up how much a 0.10 BAC is, it's equivalent to maybe 
one drink, maybe. If you look it up. It's very low. It might not even be that. 
(2Tr. 38.) 
Applicant acknowledged he did have some champagne earlier in the day about ten 
hours earlier. He received his license back in May 2025. His probation ended in October 
2024. He completed the required court ordered classes, maintained a breathalyzer in his 
car while on probation, and had his license suspended until he completed the classes. 
His fine and court costs were due in October 2023, and he paid them in January 2025. 
He now only drinks by himself at home. (2Tr. 33, 43.) 
Policies  
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG), which became 
effective on June 8, 2017. 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
5 
  
  
 
    
 
   
  
  
 
 
    
   
    
    
 
  
   
 
  
 
   
 
 
             
 
  
  
 
 
   
     
 
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified inform ation. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline F, Financial Considerations  
The security concern for financial considerations is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one’s means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self-control, lack of judgment, or unwillingness 
to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise questions about an 
individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or 
sensitive information. Financial distress can also be caused or exacerbated 
by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other issues of personnel security 
concern such as excessive gambling, mental health conditions, substance 
misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An individual who is financially 
overextended is at greater risk of having to engage in illegal or otherwise 
questionable acts to generate funds. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) inability  to  sa
 tisfy  debts;  
(c) a  hi story  of  not  meeting  financial  obligations;  and  
(e) consistent spending beyond one's  m eans or frivolous  or irresponsible  
6 
  
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
       
spending, which  may  be indicated by excessive indebtedness, significant  
negative cash flow, a  history of  late payments or  of non-payment, or other  
negative financial indicators.  
Applicant’s admissions and credit reports raise security concerns . AG ¶¶ 19(a) , 
19(c), and 19(e) are applicable. 
Conditions that could mitigate the financial considerations security concerns are 
provided under AG ¶ 20. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a)  the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or occurred  
under such circumstances that it is  unlikely to recur and does  not cast  
doubt on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  
judgment;  
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial  probl em were largely beyond  
the person’s control  (e.g., loss of employment, a business  downturn,  
unexpected  medical emergency,  a  death,  divorce  or separation, clear  
victimization by  predatory  lending practices, or identity theft),  and the 
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;  and  
   
 (d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good-fai th effort to repay      
    overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.         
 
      
  
 
   
    
 
   
     
   
 
   
   
  
        
  
    
  
  
  
  
 
     
  
App
licant’s poor financial situation is current and ongoing. None of these mitigating 
conditions are established. 
Applicant’s delinquent debts are recent, numerous, and were not incurred under 
circumstances making them unlikely to recur. The circumstances in his life have not 
changed such that it is unlikely to recur . Given the se facts there is sufficient doubt 
concerning his current reliability, trustworthiness, and good judgment. AG ¶ 20(a) is not 
applicable to the SOR allegations. 
Applicants must act responsibly given his or her circumstances and develop a 
reasonable plan for repayment, accompanied by concomitant conduct even if it may only 
provide for the payment of debts one at a time. ISCR Case No. 07- 06482 at 3 (App. Bd. 
May 21, 2008). In this matter, Applicant has a payment history with more than one debt 
being resolved after the SOR was issued, which may indicate he paid his debts as a result 
of receipt of the SOR. He failed to resolve his fine and court costs until after he received 
the SOR. While he had unresolved debts he took two trips. His payment history does not 
constitute responsible behavior. ISCR Case No. 09-08462 at 4 (App. Bd. May 31, 2011). 
While he may have mitigated one his delinquent debts prior to the SOR, he has not acted 
responsibly under the circumstances. AG ¶¶ 20(b) and 20(d) are not applicable. His 
financial issues continue to cast doubt on his current reliability, trustworthiness, and good 
judgment. See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 07-08049 at 5 (App. Bd. Jul. 22, 2008). 
Guideline  J,  Criminal  Conduct  
7 
  
 
  
  
  
   
    
 
 
 
    
 
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
       
   
 
 
         
     
  
  
 
 
      
 
  
 
       
   
 
 
The concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 30: “Criminal activity creates 
doubt about a person's judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness. By its very nature, it 
calls into question a person's ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and 
regulations.” Applicant’s record of arrest and prosecution is sufficient to establish the 
following potentially disqualifying conditions under AG ¶ 31: 
(b): evidence (including, but not limited to, a credible allegation, an 
admission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of 
whether the individual was formally charged, prosecuted, or convicted. 
The following mitigating conditions are potentially relevant under AG ¶ 32: 
(a):
 so much time has elapsed since the criminal behavior happened, or it 
happened under such unusual circumstances, that it is unlikely to recur and 
does not cast doubt on the individual ’s reliability, trustworthiness, or good 
judgment; and 
(d):
 there is evidence of successful rehabilitation; including, but not limited 
to, the passage of time without recurrence of criminal activity, restitution, 
compliance with the terms of parole or probation, job training or higher 
education, good employment record, or constructive community 
involvement. 
G
iven his BAC, his claim that he only consumed one drink, and his unwillingness 
to accept full responsibility for his actions, as well as his late resolution of his fine and 
court costs, insufficient time has elapsed since Applicant’s criminal offense. The 
mitigating conditions are not established. 
Guideline G, Alcohol Consumption  
The security concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 21: “Excessive alcohol 
consumption often leads to the exercise of questionable judgment or the failure to control 
impulses, and can raise questions about an individual’s reliability and trustworthiness.” 
Applicant’s admissions and the documentary evidence establish two potentially 
disqualifying conditions under AG ¶ 32: 
(a):  alcohol-r
elated  incidents  away  from  work,  such  as  driving  while under  
the  influence,  fighting,  child  or  spouse  abuse,  disturbing  the  peace,  or  
other incidents  of concern,  regardless of the frequency of the individual ’s 
alcohol use or whether the individual has  been diagnosed with alcohol use 
disorder; and  
(c ):  habitual  or  bi nge consumption of  alcohol to the point of impaired  
judgment, regardless  of whether the individual is diagnosed with alcohol  
use disorder.  
8 
  
 
         
 
 
 
 
    
   
        
  
 
 
 
 
    
    
 
 
  
  
   
    
 
  
  
    
The following mitigating conditions are potentially relevant under AG ¶ 23: 
(a): so much time has passed,  or  the behavior was so infrequent,  or it  
happened under such unusual circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or  
does not cast doubt on the individual’s  current  reliability, trustworthiness, or  
judgment;   
(b):  the  i ndividual  acknowledges  his  or  her  pattern  of  maladaptive  alcohol  
use,  provides evidence of  actions taken to overcome this  problem, and has  
demonstrated a clear and established pattern of modified consumption or  
abstinence in accordance with treatment recommendations;  and  
(d) the individual has  s uccessfully completed a treatment program  along  
with any  required aftercare, and  has  demonstrated a clear and established  
pattern of modified  consumption or  abstinence in accordance with treatment  
recommendations.  
Appl
icant has changed his lifestyle to make the behavior unlikely to reoccur. He 
successfully completed his assigned classes and programs. Sufficient time has passed 
to establish a pattern of changed drinking behavior , and he now presents a low risk of 
future alcohol-related criminal offenses. 
Whole-Person  Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) The nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. I have incorporated my 
comments under Guidelines F, J, and G in my whole-person analysis. 
Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts about 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. I conclude Applicant did not 
mitigate the financial considerations and criminal conduct security concerns. 
9 
  
 
 
   
   
 
          
 
   
    
 
          
Formal  Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
   
S
ubparagraphs  1.a-1.m,  1 .o-1.s:  
 P aragraph  1,  Guideline  F:  AG
AINST APPLIC ANT 
Agai nst A
pplicant 
Subparagraph 1.n  For Applicant 
AGAINST APPLICANT  Par
agraph  2,  Guideline  J:  
S
ubparagraph  2.a:  Against  Applicant  
FOR APPLICANT   Par
agraph  3,  Guideline  G:  
Subp
aragraph  3.a:   For Applicant 
   
 
   
 
           
 
                                  
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
Conclusion  
It is not c
learly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for 
a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Charles C. Hale 
Administrative Judge 
10 