 
         
    
    
 
   
 
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
    
    
    
    
      
  
     
  
   
 
      
   
    
    
   
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 24-01258 
Appearances  
For Government: Carroll J. Connelley, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Caleb N. Byrd, Esq. 
09/18/2025 
Decision 
BORGSTROM, Eric H., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not mitigate the drug involvement and substance misuse security 
concerns. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
On August 27, 2204, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
(DCSA) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns 
under Guideline H (drug involvement and substance misuse) . The DCSA acted under 
Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry 
(February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, 
Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as 
amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) implemented by the DOD on 
June 8, 2017. 
In Applicant’s September 25, 2024 response to the SOR (Answer), he admitted all 
six allegations without further explanation. He did not attach any documentary evidence. 
He requested a determination by a Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) 
administrative judge based upon the written record, in lieu of a hearing. By email dated 
November 8, 2024 (Hearing Exhibit (HE) 4), Applicant’s counsel requested a hearing. 
 
     
 
     
    
      
       
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
   
   
 
  
    
 
   
    
    
 
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
    
  
 
On December 9, 2024, the Government was ready to proceed to a hearing. I was 
assigned this case on April 10, 2025. On April 25, 2025, a notice was issued scheduling 
the hearing for May 19, 2025, by video teleconference. The hearing proceeded as 
scheduled. The Government proffered two evidentiary exhibits, which I admitted as 
Government Exhibits (GE) 1 and 2, without objection. Applicant and two witnesses 
testified. Applicant submitted two exhibits, which I admitted as Applicant Exhibits (AE) A 
and B, without objection. I held the record open until June 9, 2025, to give Applicant the 
opportunity to provide any other additional evidence. I received the transcript (Tr.) on June 
2, 2025. Applicant timely submitted one post -hearing exhibit, which I admitted as AE C, 
without objection. The record closed on June 9, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 25 years old. He graduated from high school in May 2018. He attended 
college from August 2018 to May 2023, and he earned a bachelor’s degree. He has never 
married, and he has no children. (GE 1; Tr. 48-50) 
While in college, Applicant had two summer engineering internships – from May to 
August 2021 and from May to August 2022 – with a DOD contractor. Prior to each 
internship, he was required to take and pass a drug urinalysis. In October 2022, he 
received an offer of full-time employment to begin following graduation. He accepted this 
offer and took a pre- employment drug urinalysis in early 2023. Since July 2023, he has 
been employed full time as a cybersecurity engineer with a DOD contractor. (GE 1; Tr. 
48-51, 93-94) 
The SOR alleges drug involvement and substance misuse security concerns 
arising from Applicant’s purchase, use, and sale of marijuana; his purchase and use of 
hallucinogenic drugs; his use of cocaine; and his illegal use of ketamine and Adderall , 
without a prescription. 
Marijuana (SOR  ¶¶ 1.a.  and 1.b.)  
From about October 2015 until about November 2022, Applicant purchased and 
used marijuana. He estimated that he used marijuana about once or twice a week, 
although there would be times when he would abstain from marijuana use. He stopped 
using marijuana in advance of his three pre-employment drug urinalyses, and he did not 
use during his internships. In March 2017, he purchased marijuana and baked brownies 
containing marijuana. He kept one brownie and sold about 11 brownies at $15 apiece. 
He stopped selling marijuana brownies out of concern for the potential criminal 
consequences. (Answer; GE 1-2; Tr. 52-53, 80) 
Hallucinogenic Drugs  (SOR  ¶  1.c.)  
Between about September 2017 and about September 2022, Applicant purchased 
and used hallucinogenic drugs on approximately six occasions. In September 2017, while 
in high school, he purchased n- dimethyltrypamine (DMT) from and manufactured by 
2 
 
    
  
   
  
  
   
  
    
 
 
    
  
  
   
    
    
   
 
  
   
    
  
      
    
     
 
      
   
another high school student. While in college, he purchased and used lysergic acid 
diethylamide (LSD) three times and psilocybin mushrooms twice. After his two internships 
and while awaiting his offer of employment, he last used mushrooms in September 2022. 
(Answer; GE 1-2; Tr. 55, 69-70, 84-85) 
Adderall (SOR  ¶ 1.d.)  
In April 2021, to aid his preparation for a college exam, Applicant used Adderall, a 
prescription medication, without a prescription. (Answer; GE 1-2; Tr. 56) 
Cocaine (SOR  ¶ 1.e.)  
In June 2023, Applicant and his roommate traveled to Mexico by car to attend a 
wedding. They picked up his roommate’s acquaintance on the way. Once in Mexico, they 
relied upon the acquaintance for transportation. They stayed out late at a bar and relied 
on an unknown individual to transport them to another social gathering. En route to this 
after-party, the driver took Applicant and his roommate to a vacant house and offered 
them cocaine. Applicant testified that he felt uncomfortable and unsafe to decline the 
offered cocaine, though he did have concerns that the cocaine may be adulterated with 
other substances, such as fentanyl. Applicant and his roommate used the offered cocaine 
and then traveled on to the after-party. (Answer; GE 1-2; Tr. 58-61, 71-73, 88) 
Ketamine (SOR  ¶ 1.f.)  
In July 2023, approximately two weeks before his start date with the DOD 
contractor, Applicant met a woman on a dating application and later used ketamine, a 
prescription drug, offered by her. They continued dating for a few weeks after that, but 
Applicant only used ketamine once. (Answer; GE 1-2; Tr. 52, 63-64, 89) 
Applicant admitted that he stopped using marijuana a few months prior to his three  
pre-employment  drug tests in order to pass any urinalyses. He  also admitted that he 
continued using illegal drugs  and  misusing prescription drugs after his  early  2023 pre-
employment  drug urinalysis. He testified that  he had not  used any illegal drugs  or misused 
any prescription drugs since his July 17, 2023 start date with the DOD contractor.  He 
acknowledged that he was concerned about a random drug test when he first started with  
the DOD contractor given his recent illegal drug use.  (Tr. 51-52, 77-81)  
On October 4, 2023, Applicant completed and certified an Electronic Questionnaire 
for Investigations Processing (e- QIP). Under Section 23 – Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug 
Activity, he reported that he had used marijuana between October 2015 and November 
2022. He admitted that the frequency of his marijuana use was greater during high school 
and in college and that he discontinued his drug use before his summer internships as he 
anticipated pre-employment drug tests. He estimated that he used marijuana about once 
or twice a week while in college. He noted that he did intend to use marijuana in the future 
if legal under Federal law. In his e -QIP, he also admitted using hallucinogenic drugs, 
ketamine, Adderall, and cocaine. (GE 1) 
3 
 
  
  
    
  
  
 
     
 
 
  
 
  
 
     
   
    
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
     
    
 
  
 
 
   
   
  
  
  
   
    
 
On January 17, 2024, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator on 
behalf of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). He confirmed his disclosures on 
his October 2023 e- QIP about his illegal drug use and prescription drug misuse. As to 
marijuana, he admitted having illegal ly purchased marijuana. He also admitted having 
used DMT which he had purchased from an acquaintance. He admitted that he had used 
ketamine with an individual whom he had met through an online dating application. This 
individual provided him the ketamine in the form of a nasal spray. He admitted that he 
used cocaine with a roommate while in Mexico on vacation. He admitted that he had 
baked 12 brownies with THC or marijuana as an ingredient, and he sold 11 brownies to 
his friends. He admitted that he obtained Adderall from a friend. (GE 2) 
On May 22, 2025, Applicant participated in a hair follicle drug panel test and tested 
negative for amphetamines, methamphetamines, cocaine, opiates, phencyclidine, and 
marijuana. (AE C) 
Applicant testified that he has never failed a drug test; however, he has not been 
required to take a random drug urinalysis since his July 2023 start date. He acknowledged 
his questionable judgment by using cocaine and ketamine shortly before his employment 
began in July 2023. He no longer associates with the woman with whom he used 
ketamine. He continues to socialize with the roommate with whom he used cocaine; 
however, he has not observed that roommate use illegal drugs since June 2023. He does 
not currently socialize with anyone who uses illegal drugs. Applicant’s parents are 
unaware of his cocaine or ketamine use, and his character references are unaware of the 
full extent of his illegal drug use and prescription drug misuse. (Tr. 64, 82, 88-91) 
Whole Person  
Applicant’s current and former supervisors employed by the DOD contractor 
testified in support of his clearance eligibility. They praised his subject -matter expertise, 
leadership, initiative, work ethic, honesty, and reliability. They were generally aware that 
Applicant’s illegal drug use was a security concern; however, they had not reviewed the 
SOR and were unfamiliar with the illegal and prescription drugs at issue. Both witnesses 
attested to a drugfree workplace policy and employees being subject to random drug 
testing, although neither were aware of any drug testing beyond pre- employment 
urinalyses (Tr. 16-27, 31-41) 
Applicant submitted seven character-reference letters in support of his clearance 
eligibility. His current manager and former supervisor praised his “uncompromising 
integrity, initiative, dependability, loyalty,” professionalism, work performance, and work 
ethic. A co-worker attested to Applicant’s technical expertise and his remorse for his past 
illegal drug use. (AE A) 
Two longtime friends praised Applicant’s work ethic, intelligence, trustworthiness, 
and compassion. An acquaintance, the mother of Applicant’s girlfriend, described him as 
“very polite, professional, and trustworthy.” His girlfriend noted Applicant’s positive 
influence in her own career journey. One letter referenced Applicant’s illegal drug use but 
4 
 
    
 
     
  
 
    
  
  
      
   
 
    
 
  
  
    
      
 
 
  
   
     
  
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
 
did not indicate any awareness as to the full extent of Applicant’s drug involvement. (AE 
A) 
Applicant’s 2024 performance review praised his proactive approach in identifying 
and addressing problems and described him as a natural leader. His 2023 performance 
review noted his teamwork and critical thinking. (AE B) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant ’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to sensitive information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off-duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
sensitive information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard sensitive information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of sensitive information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
5 
 
    
 
  
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
 
   
   
   
 
   
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
     
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline H: Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse  
The security concern for drug involvement is set out in AG ¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any “controlled substance” as 
defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in 
this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 25. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a) any  s
ubstance misuse;  and 
(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation, 
pr
ocessing, manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession of 
drug paraphernalia. 
Mar
ijuana is a Schedule I controlled substance under Federal law pursuant to Title 
21, Section 812 of the United States Code. Schedule I drugs are those which have a high 
potential for abuse; have no currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United 
States; and lack accepted safety for use of the drug under medical supervision. Section 
844 under Title 21 of the United States Code makes it unlawful for any person to 
knowingly or intentionally possess a controlled substance not obtained pursuant to a valid 
prescription. 
On October 25, 2014, the then Director of National Intelligence (DNI) issued 
guidance that changes to laws by some states and the District of Columbia to legalize or 
decriminalize the recreational use of marijuana do not alter existing Federal law or the 
National Security Adjudicative Guidelines, and that an individual’s disregard of Federal 
law pertaining to the use, sale, or manufacture of marijuana remains adjudicatively 
relevant in national security eligibility determinations. 
On December 21, 2021, the then DNI issued clarifying guidance concerning 
marijuana, noting that prior recreational use of marijuana by an individual may be relevant 
6 
 
  
 
  
     
 
   
 
  
   
 
  
 
     
 
 
   
    
 
   
    
  
      
  
  
  
to security adjudications, but is not determinative in the whole- person evaluation. 
Relevant factors in mitigation include the frequency of use and whether the individual can 
demonstrate that future use is unlikely to recur. 
Applicant admitted his purchase, use, and sale of marijuana, his purchase and use 
of hallucinogenic drugs, his use of cocaine, and his misuse of Adderall and ketamine. AG 
¶ 25(a) and 25(c) apply. All of these controlled substances were illegal in Applicant’s state 
of residence. 
Conditions that could mitigate the drug involvement security concerns are provided 
under AG ¶ 26. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or
  happened 
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur  or does not cast doubt 
on the individual’s current reliability,  trustworthiness,  or good judgment;  and 
(b) the individual acknowledges  hi s or her drug involvement and substance 
misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and 
has established a pattern of  abstinence, including, but not limited to: 
(1) disassociation from drug-us
 ing associates and contacts; 
(2) changing or  av oiding the environment where drugs were used; 
and 
(3) providing a signed statement  of  intent to abstain from  all drug 
involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future 
involvement  or misuse is grounds for revocation of  national security 
eligibility. 
Appl
icant was fully aware that his purchase, use, and sale of these controlled 
substances was illegal. Even while he was in high school, he was aware that his sale of 
marijuana brownies placed him at risk of significant criminal penalties. Over seven years, 
he used marijuana hundreds of times, with some periods of abstinences. His illegal drug 
use extended beyond marijuana to using hallucinogenic drugs on approximately six 
occasions. While he discontinued his illegal drug use during his internships, he resumed 
his use of marijuana and hallucinogenic drugs after his internships concluded. He 
resumed his illegal drug use after his early 2023 pre- employment drug test. He placed 
himself in a vulnerable position leading to his June 2023 cocaine use, and then he w as 
persuaded by a romantic partner to illegally use k etamine just two weeks before his 
employment started with a DOD contractor. I have considered his statement of intent to 
abstain from all drug involvement in the future. I have also considered Applicant’s 
presence in a college environment during most of his drug use, but he cannot attribute 
his drug involvement to immaturity while also claiming maturity and good judgment during 
his internships and full -time employment. Furthermore, the breadth and depth of 
Applicant’s drug involvement, intertwined with his internships and pre- employment 
7 
 
 
  
 
  
    
     
     
  
   
  
   
    
  
  
   
   
 
  
   
  
   
  
     
    
urinalyses, cast doubt on his reliability and judgment and require a longer pattern of 
abstinence. He did not mitigate the drug involvement and substance misuse security 
concerns. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information by considering the totality of the 
applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should 
consider the nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; ( 5) the  extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. I considered the potentially 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances 
surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under Guideline H and the 
factors in AG ¶ 2(d) in this whole-person analysis. 
Applicant has thrived in his new career with a DOD contractor. I found his testimony 
credible and sincere; however, he has not overcome the serious concerns about his 
maturity and judgment. None of his references were aware of the full extent of his drug 
involvement and substance misuse. He cannot excuse his drug involvement on the basis 
of immaturity and the college environment and then claim maturity, reliability, and good 
judgment weeks later as an employee of a DOD contractor. With a greater passage of 
time and continued abstinence, he may be able to mitigate those concerns, but, at 
present, Applicant has not mitigated the drug involvement and substance misuse security 
concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  Guideline H:  AGAINST  APPL
 ICANT  
Subparagraphs 1.a.-1.f.:  Against Applicant  
8 
 
 
   
 
      
 
 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, I conclude 
that it is not clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant Applicant ’s 
eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Eric H. Borgstrom 
Administrative Judge 
9 