 
 
 
                                                              
 
 
                                                                                                                    
          
           
             
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
     
 
        
  
 
  
   
     
     
______________ 
______________ 
DEPART
MENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
 
In the matter of:  )  
 )  
            )   ISCR  Case No. 24-02155  
  )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance  )  
 
 
Ap
pearances  
For G
overnment: 
Andrew Henderson, Esquire, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: 
Pro se 
06/25/2025 
Decision 
CEFOLA, Richard A., Administrative Judge: 
On June 25, 2020, and again on September 27, 2023, Applicant submitted her 
Electronic Questionnaires for Investigations Processing (e-QIP). On January 3, 2025, the 
Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency Consolidated Adjudication Services 
(DCSA CAS) issued Applicant a Statement of Reasons (SOR) detailing security concerns 
under Guideline H (Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse) . The action was taken 
under Executive Order 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry 
(February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of Defense Directive 5220.6, Defense 
Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended 
(Directive); and the Adjudicative Guidelines effective June 8, 2017. 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
       
   
    
  
   
    
  
     
 
 
       
   
  
 
          
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
Applicant answered the SOR (Answer) in writing on January 7, 2025, and 
requested a hearing before an administrative judge. The Defense Office of Hearings and 
Appeals (DOHA) received the request on March 28, 2025. I received the case assignment 
on April 3, 2025. DOHA issued a Notice of Hearing on April 14, 2025, and I convened the 
hearing as scheduled on May 22, 2025. The Government offered Exhibits (GXs) 1 through 
5, which were received into evidence without objection. Applicant testified and submitted 
Exhibits (AppXs) A and B, which were received into evidence without objection. She also 
asked that the record be kept open until June 20, 2025, for the receipt of additional 
documentation. On May 23, 2025, Applicant submitted a closing statement. DOHA 
received the transcript of the hearing (TR) on June 2, 2025. Based upon a review of the 
pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Findings of Fact  
In her Answer to the SOR Applicant admitted the factual allegations of the SOR, 
with explanations . She also provided additional information to support h er request for 
eligibility for a security clearance.  
Applicant is 32 years old, unmarried, and has no children. She has a bachelor’s 
degree in business and finance. She works for a defense contractor as a Scheduler. (TR 
at page 5 line 10 to page 6 line 1, and at page 16 line 7 to page 19 line 10.) 
Guideline H  –  Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse   
1.a.  and 1.c.  Applicant admits that  she used marijuana with  varying frequency  from 
about February 2007  until her last usage in  September of 2023 ,  a period of about 16  
years. “Over the last  seven years,” she avers she only  used marijuana with  friends in  
March 2019,  and in  October  2021;  and with friends and their parents in September of  
2023. Applicant  also purchased marijuana with varying frequency from  about February  
2007 until her last  purchase in December 2021, about three and a half years ago.  (TR at 
page 19 line 11 to page 31 line 23.)  She has submitted an undated letter of intent “to  
abstain from  all drug involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that  any future  
involvement  or misuse is grounds for revocation of national security  eligibility.”  (AppX A.)  
1.b and 1. d.  In her  Answer to the SOR,  Applicant admits  to using and purchasing  
marijuana, from about October 2020 until September 2023, while employed in sensitive  
positions  (one requiring a security clearance). At her  hearing,  however, A pplicant  
recanted this  admission. (TR  at page 20 line 24 to p age 21 line 5.)  This recantation is  
suspect, at  best.  Applicant submitted an e-QIP  in June of 2020, changed employers, and 
again submitted an e-QIP in November  of 2024.  At  a bare minimum, Applicant knew  she  
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
     
 
  
      
   
 
 
   
    
   
 
      
   
 
 
 
   
    
 
  
  
 
        
      
    
      
   
 
     
  
   
   
    
      
     
   
made these submissions, yet used and purchased the Federally designated illegal 
substance in March of 2019, and again in October 2021. 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant ’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are useful in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The administrative 
judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. 
According to AG ¶ 2(a), the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of 
variables known as the whole- person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. Likewise, I have avoided drawing inferences grounded on mere 
speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel , and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable clearance decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as 
to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
     
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
       
    
 
 
 
Section 7 of Executive Order 10865 provides that decisions shall be “in terms of 
the national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Drug Involvement and Substance 
Misuse is set forth at AG ¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual's reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person's ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any "controlled substance" as 
defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in 
this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
The guideline at AG ¶ 25 contains seven conditions that could raise a security 
concern and may be disqualifying. Three conditions are established: 
(a) any substance misuse (see above definition);  
(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation,  
pr
ocessing, manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession of  
drug paraphernalia; and  
(f) any illegal  dr ug use while granted access to classified information or  
holding a sensitive position.  
Appel
lant used marijuana over a period of 16 years, to include twice while holding 
a sensitive position. Therefore, AG ¶ 25 (a), (c), and (f) are established. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
     
        
   
     
  
 
 
   
    
  
   
 
The guideline at AG ¶ 26 contains five conditions that could mitigate security 
concerns. Two conditions may be applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or  ha ppened  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur  or does not cast doubt  
on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment; and  
(b) the individual acknowledges  hi s or her drug involvement and substance  
misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and  
has established a pattern of  abstinence, including, but not limited to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-us ing associates and contacts;   
(2) changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were  
us
ed; and  
(3) providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all  
dr
ug involvement  and  substance misuse, acknowledging that  
any future involvement or misuse is grounds  for revocation of  
national security eligibility.  
Al
though Applicant has submitted a statement of intent as to future drug 
`involvement, in light of her fairly recent September 2023 usage, while holding a position 
of trust, I find it is too soon to rule out future drug involvement. Drug Involvement and 
Substance Misuse is found against Applicant. This should not dissuade Applicant , 
however, from applying for a security clearance in the future, after a further period of 
abstinence. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of an applicant’s 
conduct and all the circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; ( 5) the  extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
   
  
  
      
 
 
   
     
     
  
   
 
 
      
  
 
  
 
   
 
 
      
     
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_________________ 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.   
AG ¶ 2(b) requires each case must be judged on its own merits. Under AG ¶ 2(c), 
the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a security clearance must be 
an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration of the guidelines 
and the whole person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. Applicant performs her job well, as 
evidenced by her two most recent work appraisals. (AppX B.) Overall, however, at precent 
the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts as to Applicant’s eligibility and 
suitability for a security clearance. For all these reasons, I conclude Applicant failed to 
mitigate the security concerns arising from her drug involvement and substance abuse. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by ¶ E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline H:   AGAINST  APPL
 ICANT  
Subparagraphs  1 .a~1.d:   Against  A pplicant  
Conclusion  
In l
ight of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant national security eligibility 
for a security clearance.  Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Richard A. Cefola 
Administrative Judge 
6 