 
 
 
                                                              
 
 
                                                                                                                    
          
           
             
 
 
 
 
  
  
                
   
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
      
  
  
      
     
 
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPART
MENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-02401 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: 
Tovah Minster, Esquire, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: 
Pro se 
08/14/2025 
Decision 
ROSS, Wilford H., Administrative Judge: 
Statement  of the Case  
On January 7, 2025, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline F . The action 
was taken under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial 
Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended 
(Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) implemented by the DOD on June 8, 
2017. 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
     
  
  
 
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
    
 
     
   
 
       
   
  
  
   
 
     
 
      
        
    
   
 
 
  
 
Applicant answered the SOR in writing with a statement (Answer) on January 22, 
2025. He requested his case be decided on the written record in lieu of a hearing. (Item 
2.) On March 5, 2025, Department Counsel submitted the Department’s written case. A 
complete copy of the file of relevant material (FORM), consisting of Items 1 to 6, was 
provided to Applicant, who received the file on March 24, 2025. 
Applicant was given 30 days from receipt of the FORM to file objections and submit 
material in refutation, extenuation, or mitigation. He elected not to submit additional 
information. The case was assigned to me on July 1, 2025. Items 1 through 6 are hereby 
entered into evidence. Based upon a review of the pleadings and exhibits, national 
security eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 4 0 years old and single. He has a bachelor’s degree. He has been 
employed by a defense contractor since November 2023 as a software engineer analyst. 
(Item 2 at Sections 12, 13A, and 17.) 
Paragraph 1 (Guideline F, Financial Considerations)  
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance 
because he is financially overextended and therefore potentially unreliable, 
untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds. Applicant 
admitted all the allegations under this guideline. 
The SOR alleged that Applicant has 6 debts that were charged-off, or in collection, 
in the total amount of approximately $48,000. (SOR 1.a through 1. f.) The existence and 
amount of these debts is supported by his admissions to all SOR allegations in his 
Answer. The debts are also confirmed by credit reports submitted by the Government 
dated November 20, 2023; and December 5, 2024. (Items 5 and 6.) In addition, the 
existence of the debts is supported by Applicant’s answers to a set of financial 
interrogatories sent to him by DCSA CAS and signed by him on July 5, 2024. (Item 4.) 
Applicant stated that his inability to pay his debts was due to several factors that 
occurred between 2022 and 2024. The rent increased at his home, and he had to move. 
He also stated that he was unemployed or underemployed. (Answer; Item 3 at Section 
26, Item 4 at 6-7.) 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The status of the debts is as follows: 
1.a. Applicant admitted that he is indebted to a creditor for a charged- off account  
in the a mount of $20,2 73. He indicate d  in his responses to interrogatories  that he had  
made arrangements to pay this debt.  However,  he did not provide documentary  evidence  
with his interrogatory responses  to support his statement.  It is not resolved. (Item  4  at 3, 
8.)  
1.b. Applicant admitted that he is indebted to a creditor for a charged- off account  
in the a mount of $17,300. He indicated  in his responses to interrogatories  that he had  
made arrangements  to pay this debt  at  the rate of $200 a  month, and that he had attached  
supporting documentation. Page 16 of Item 4 shows  monthly payments of  $250 to a  
creditor  not named in the SOR. No documentation is submitted concerning the  creditor  in 
this allegation. It is not  resolved.  (Item  3 at Section 26,  Item  4  at 4.)  
1.c.  Applicant  admitted that  he is indebted to  a creditor for a charged- off account  
in the amount of $8,484. He indicated  in his responses to interrogatories that he  had  made  
arrangements to pay this debt.  However, he did not provide documentary  evidence with  
his interrogatory responses  to support  his statement.  This  debt is not resolved. (Item  4  at  
3.)  
1.d. Applicant admitted that he is indebted to a creditor for a charged- off account  
in the amount of $752. He indicated  in his responses to interrogatories that he had made  
arrangements to pay  this debt.  No additional  evidence was supplied to show that  he had  
fulfilled his  payment arrangement. This debt is not resolved. (Item  4  at 4.)  
1.e. Applicant admitted that  he is indebted to a creditor  for  an account placed for  
collection in the amount of $725 .  He attached to his interrogatories responses  an email  
dated July 10, 2024, from the creditor indicating that  he had entered into a payment  
agreement regarding this debt, which had a balance of  $3,679. The agreement required  
him to make six  monthly payments of  $613.27  to resolve the debt.  No evidence was  
supplied to show that  he had fulfilled his payment  arrangement.  This  debt is not resolved.  
(Item 4  at 4, 8,  10-14.)  
1.f. Applicant admitted that he is indebted to a creditor for a charged-off account in  
the amount of $ 710. He indicated  in  his responses to interrogatories that  he had made  
arrangements to pay  this debt. No additional  evidence was supplied to show that  he had  
fulfilled his  payment arrangement. This debt is not resolved. (Item  4  at 4.)  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
       
     
 
     
    
   
 
 
 
  
     
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
Applicant submitted a budget and information as to his salary. They are attached 
to his interrogatory responses. The documents show that he has approximately $4,020 a 
month in discretionary income. However, he did not submit any information as to how he 
intends to use his discretionary income to resolve the majority of his indebtedness. (Item 
3 at Section 26; Item 4 at 8, 15.) 
Applicant also elected not to submit any information about his work performance 
or ability to safeguard classified information. I am unable to make a credibility assessment 
as he elected not to have a hearing. 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s national security eligibility for a security clearance, 
the administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines (AG) list 
potentially disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in 
evaluating an applicant’s national security eligibility. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. The entire 
process is a conscientious scrutiny of applicable guidelines in the context of a number of 
variables known as the whole- person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires, “Any doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. I have not drawn inferences based on mere speculation or 
conjecture. 
Directive ¶ E3.1.14, requires the Government to present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, “The applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel, and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable clearance decision.” 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
    
 
  
  
  
  
    
    
 
 
 
 
 
   
        
 
   
   
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
 
    
  
 
 
 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants national 
security eligibility. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk the 
applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or safeguard classifi ed 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as 
to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified or sensitive information. 
Finally, as emphasized in Section 7 of Executive Order 10865, “Any determination under 
this order adverse to an applicant shall be a determination in terms of the national interest 
and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” 
See also Executive Order 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information.) 
Analysis  
Paragraph 1  (Guideline F, Financial Considerations)  
The security concerns relating to the guideline for financial considerations are set 
out in AG ¶ 18, which reads in pertinent part: 
Failure to live within one’s means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
AG ¶ 19 describes two conditions that could raise security concerns and may be 
disqualifying in this case: 
(a) inability to satisfy  d
 ebts;  and  
(c) a history of not  m eeting financial  obligations.  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
       
      
 
     
   
 
  
 
 
 
     
    
    
   
      
   
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
The evidence shows that Applicant has six delinquent debts in the amount of 
approximately $ 48,000 that he had not paid. AG ¶ ¶ 19(a) and (c) apply. The burden 
thereby shifts to Applicant to mitigate the adverse inference of his delinquent debts. 
The guideline includes four conditions in AG ¶ 20 that could mitigate the security 
concerns arising from Applicant’s alleged financial difficulties: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
und
er such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good judgment;   
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial  pr oblem were largely beyond  
the person’s control  (e.g., loss of employment, a business  downturn,  
unexpected medical emergency, or a death, divorce or separation, clear  
victimization by  predatory  lending practices, or identity theft), and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
(c) the individual  has  received or is receiving financial counseling for the  
problem from  a legitimate and credible source, such as a non- profit credit  
counseling service,  and there are clear indications that the problem is being  
resolved or is under control;  and  
(d) the individual initiated and  i s adhering to a good- faith effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.  
None of 
the mitigating conditions have application to this case. The documentary 
evidence did not contain sufficient evidence to support a finding that Applicant had 
resolved any of his debts. I have considered his statements concerning his prior financial 
and work-related difficulties. However, he did not show that he has acted responsibly in 
resolving his debts. Based on all of the available evidence, Applicant has not mitigated 
the security concerns of this guideline. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for national security eligibility by considering the totality of the 
applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should 
consider the nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
    
     
 
 
    
      
   
  
 
 
 
      
  
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
     
  
 
 
                                                  
 
 
 
 
 
 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other  permanent behavioral  changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant national security 
eligibility for a security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon 
careful consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
pertinent facts and circumstances surrounding this case. Applicant has not mitigated the 
security concerns of his financial conduct. He has presented insufficient evidence 
showing that he had resolved, or is resolving, his financial situation. Paragraph 1 is found 
against Applicant. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by ¶ E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  Guideline F:   AGAINST  APPL
 ICANT  
Subparagraphs 1.a  t hrough  1.f:   Against  A pplicant  
Conclusion  
In 
light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue Applicant’s national 
security eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is 
denied. 
WILFORD H. ROSS 
Administrative Judge 
7 