 
 
 
  
                                                              
                             
          
           
         
 
             
 
 
    
  
       
     
  
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
     
 
   
    
     
  
    
   
    
   
 
     
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00946 
) 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Andrew Henderson, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
09/22/2025 
Decision 
LOKEY ANDERSON, Darlene D., Administrative Judge: 
Statement of Case  
On July 13, 2023, Applicant submitted a security clearance application ( e-QIP). 
On August 15, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS) issued Applicant a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR), detailing security concerns under Guideline F, Financial 
Considerations. The action was taken under Executive Order 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DoD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive); and the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for 
Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a 
Sensitive Position (AG), effective within the DoD after June 8, 2017. 
 
 
 
     
  
  
      
    
    
  
 
 
 
      
  
 
     
 
 
 
  
    
  
 
 
  
  
  
     
   
 
 
  
  
       
    
    
    
 
   
  
  
   
 
    
  
Applicant answered the SOR on August 21, 2024, and requested a hearing 
before an administrative judge.  The case was assigned to me on June 30, 2025.  The 
Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals issued a notice of hearing on July 2, 2025, and 
the hearing was convened as scheduled on August 14, 2025.  The Government offered 
seven exhibits, referred to as Government Exhibits 1 through 7, which were admitted 
without objection. The Applicant offered no exhibits. Applicant testified on his own 
behalf.  DOHA received the transcript of the hearing (Tr.) on August 25, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 53 years old.  She is married but separated from her spouse since 
October 2022, and has no children.  She is a high school graduate with two and a half 
years of college.  She is applying for a position as a Security Escort. A security 
clearance is required in connection with this employment. 
Guideline F - Financial Considerations  
The Government alleged that Applicant is ineligible for a clearance because she 
made financial decisions that indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which raise questions about her 
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information. 
The SOR identified seven allegations consisting of delinquent debts totaling in 
excess of $25,000, which includes collections, charge- offs, and vehicle repossessions. 
Applicant admits each of the allegations with explanations.  Credit reports of the 
Applicant dated August 5, 2023; April 8, 2024; and March 31, 2025, confirm that she is 
indebted to each of the creditors listed in the SOR.  ( See Government Exhibits 4, 5, 6 
and 7.) 
Applicant has for the most part maintained a steady work history, but has 
struggled financially since about 2008.  She has at times worked overseas earning more 
there than what she would earn in the states; and at times has even been provided 
housing, but has still found herself in financial trouble. She has spent her money to 
finance a “bounce house” business venture, sent money to family members for various 
things they needed, and did not put her bills as a priority.   She has a habit of living 
beyond her means; and as a result, she cannot afford to pay her bills.   She has not 
followed a financial budget, and has done just enough to stay afloat, making a payment 
here and there to satisfy a creditor.  (Tr. 53.)  In April 2023, she hired an online credit 
counseling service to provide her with financial education; to assist in cleaning up her 
credit report; and to resolve her delinquent debts.  She stated that she paid them the 
initial upfront fee of $1,500, and $29 a month for about a year, before she stopped in 
2024, when friends informed her that the service they provide will not help her with what 
she needs done to be eligible for a security clearance.  (Government Exhibit 3 and Tr. 
pp. 39 and 49.) 
2 
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
        
  
 
 
 
 
The following delinquent debts are of security concern: 
1.a.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount  of  $12,209 for an account  
that was charged off.   This was a vehicle she purchased in about 2017/2018 and made  
payment on until about October  2021.  The car was later repossessed.   She intends  to  
pay the debt when she can afford to do so.   (Tr. pp. 32- 33,  and Government Exhibits 2  
and 7.)     
1.b.   Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of  $8,002 for an account  
that was charged off.   This was a vehicle she purchased, could not  afford,  and was later  
repossessed.   She has made no payments  to resolve the debt.  (Tr. pp. 33- 34, and  
Government Exhibit 2.)  The debt remains  owing.   
1.c.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of $2,813 for an account  
that was placed for collection.  This was a personal loan she took out and used to help  
her cousin who was laid off  of her job.   She could not afford to make the payments.  She  
has made no payments to resolve the debt.   (Tr. pp. 37-38, and Government Exhibit 2.)   
The debt remains owing.        
1.d.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of  $874 for an account that  
was placed for collection.   Applicant stated that she does not recognize the debt,  and  
has  not  made any effort to contact the creditor to inquire about it.  (Tr.  pp. 38-39 and  
Government  Exhibit 2.)  The debt appears on Applicant’s most  recent credit report.   
(Government Exhibit 7.)  The debt remains owing.    
1.e.   Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of  $772 for an account that  
was placed for collection.  This is a credit card that she could not afford to pay.  She has  
made no effort to contact the creditor to resolve the debt.   (Tr. pp. 39- 40, and  
Government Exhibit 2.)  The debt remains  owing.      
1.f.  Applicant was indebted to a creditor in  the amount  of  $669 for an account  
that was placed for collection.  This is a credit card that she charged up and could not  
afford to pay.   She stated that  on January 16, 2025, she made a payment  of $245 and  
the balance was reduced to $345.  Since then the debt has increased $524.   She stated  
that she was recently  offered a settlement.   She plans on contacting the creditor to pay  
the debt when she can afford to do so.  (Tr.  pp.  40-41, and G overnment  Exhibits 2 and  
7.)  The debt remains  owing.             
1.g.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of  $152 for an account that  
was charged off.  This  is a secured credit card where she paid money down to start the  
account.  She was later offered an actual credit card.   She thought she had paid the  
balance on the account when she had not.   She learned that  a balance was still owed 
when she saw her credit report in June 2023.  She made no payment to resolve the  
debt.  (Tr. pp. 42-43, and Government Exhibits 2 and 7.)  The debt remains owing.      
3 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
      
 
    
    
 
  
     
 
   
 
    
 
 
      
   
 
 
   
      
    
  
      
   
 
 
 
   
     
 
 
 
 
       
     
  
    
     
  
 
Applicant stated that in addition to the debts listed above, she is also behind on 
her Navy Federal Credit Card; two Capital One Credit Cards; and numerous student 
loan accounts.  (Tr. pp. 43- 45.)  She also owes the Federal Government for back taxes 
in the amount of approximately $40,000.  She has not yet set up a payment plan to 
resolve any of these debts.  (Tr. pp. 55-57.) 
Applicant is currently working as a Uber driver and earns about $5,000 monthly. 
She spends about $2,000 or more to rent the car through Uber.  After she pays her 
regular monthly expenses that include her rent that also covers her utilities of $750, her 
cell phone bill of $223, and food, she has nothing left at the end of the month.  (Tr. p. 
54.)  She has no health insurance, and no retirement account.  (Tr. p. 55.) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The 
administrative judge’s over arching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and 
commonsense decision.  The entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of 
variables known as the whole- person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I 
have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical and based on the 
evidence contained in the record. Likewise, I have avoided drawing inferences 
grounded on mere speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, 
or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel .” The 
applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable clearance 
decision. 
4 
 
 
 
    
 
    
  
    
      
    
    
 
   
  
     
    
 
 
 
 
       
 
  
   
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The g overnment 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to 
potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline F -  Financial Considerations  
The security concern for Financial Considerations is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
Affluence that cannot be explained by known sources of income is also a 
security concern insofar as it may result from criminal activity, including 
espionage. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. Two are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) inability or unwillingness to satisfy debts;
  and  
(c) a history of not  m eeting financial  obligations.  
5 
 
 
 
   
    
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
     
  
 
  
       
      
 
 
   
    
       
  
  
Applicant has incurred debt that she cannot afford to pay.  She has a history of 
financial hardship. The evidence is sufficient to raise the above disqualifying conditions. 
The following mitigating conditions under the Financial Considerations guideline 
are potentially applicable under AG ¶ 20: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
under
 such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast  
doubt  on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good  
judgment;  
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely  
beyo
nd the person’s control (e.g. loss  of employment, a business  
downturn, unexpected medical emergency, or a death, divorce, or  
separation), and the individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;   
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good faith effort  to  repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  and  
(e) the individual has  a reas onable basis to  dispute the legitimacy  of the 
past-due debt  which i s  the c ause of the problem  and provides  
documented proof to  substantiate the basis of the dispute or provides  
evidence of actions to resolve the issue.  
For m
any years, Applicant has been and continues to be financially indebted, 
with no ability to pay her delinquent debts.  In fact, each of the debts listed in the SOR 
remains owing, and little or no effort has been made to resolve them.  She currently 
does not have the money to do so.  Her history of indebtedness has not improved 
overtime but has remained a constant problem.  Her spending habits and inability to 
manage her finances casts serious doubts on her current reliability, trustworthiness, and 
good judgment.  There is insufficient evidence in the record to show that the Applicant 
has carried her burden of proof to establish mitigation of the government security 
concerns under Guideline F. None of the mitigating conditions are applicable. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5)  the  extent to  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
   
   
 
   
  
  
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
  
    
 
  
 
   
 
   
 
       
     
      
                                                
 
 
 
 
 
 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of 
rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation 
for the conduct; (8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or 
duress; and (9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole -person concept. Applicant may someday 
be able to demonstrate that she has changed her spending habits, and has made a 
commitment to resolve her debts, (with regular and systematic payments) and has 
learned how to properly manage her finances.  However, at this time, she has not 
demonstrated this ability.  Applicant is not eligible to access classified information. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
relevant facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I conclude Applicant has not 
mitigated the Financial Considerations security concern. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by ¶ E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  G
 uideline F:   AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a.  through 1.g.:    Against  Applicant  
Conclusion  
In l
ight of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue Applicant’s eligibility for 
a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Darlene Lokey Anderson 
Administrative Judge 
7 