 
 
                                                              
  
                      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  
    DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS       
           
             
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
      
   
      
  
     
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
______________ 
______________ 
In  the matter  of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR  Case No.  24-01410  
  )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance  )  
Appearances  
For Government: Sakeena Farhath, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
06/12/2025 
Decision  
BLAZEWICK, R. B., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not mitigate the security concerns under Guidelines E (personal 
conduct) and J (criminal conduct) . Eligibility for access t o classified information is 
denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
On October 18, 2024, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guidelines E and J . The 
action was taken under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified 
Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 5220.6, 
Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as 
amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG ) implemented by the DOD on 
June 8, 2017. 
Applicant responded to the SOR on October 18, 2024, and requested a decision 
on the written record in lieu of a hearing . The Government’s written case was submitted 
on November 26, 2024. A complete copy of the file of relevant material (FORM) was 
provided to Applicant, who was afforded an opportunity to file objections and submit 
material to refute, extenuate, or mitigate the security concerns. Applicant received the 
 
 
 
    
      
  
 
     
 
     
      
    
    
   
   
    
      
   
    
   
 
   
   
  
  
 
   
   
 
    
       
   
  
   
    
 
    
   
   
      
  
    
   
  
 
   
  
  
FORM on December 20,  2024, and he did not respond. The case was assigned on 
March 4, 2025 . The Government ’s documents identified as Items 3 through 7 are 
admitted in evidence without objection. 
Findings of Fact  
The SOR alleges that Applicant was arrested in 2008 for identity theft and 
financial transaction device – illegal sale/use (SOR ¶¶ 2.a, 1.e); he was charged in 2019 
for failure to disclose a dangerous weapon (SOR ¶¶ 2.b, 1.e); he falsified material facts 
in his 2023 subject interview (SI) regarding both criminal matters (SOR ¶ 1.d); he 
falsified material facts on his 2023 security clearance application (SCA) when he failed 
to report his 2019 charge in response to two separate questions (SOR ¶¶ 1.b, 1.c); and 
he falsified material facts on his SCA when he failed to report his three siblings (SOR ¶ 
1.a). In h is answer, Applicant admitted the allegations pertaining to reporting his 
siblings, reporting his criminal matters in his SI, and the fact that he was charged in 
2019. He denied or “partially denied” the remaining allegations. I have treated his partial 
denials as denials. 
Applicant is 46 years old. He has been employed by a defense contractor since 
2023. He moved to the U.S. when he was 15 years old. He obtained a bachelor’s 
degree in 2001. He married in 2006 and has one minor child. This is his first security 
clearance application. (Items 3-4) 
In 2008, Applicant’s sister filed a police report, stating that Applicant had been 
using her social security number without her permission to open accounts in her name 
for several years, and that she believed he had stolen several other people’s social 
security numbers as well. She told the police she had contacted Applicant and asked 
him to stop opening accounts in her name , but he continued doing it for years. After an 
investigation, including an interview with Applicant, he was arrested after he turned 
himself in following issuance of an arrest warrant. Applicant was charged with identity 
theft and financial transaction device – illegal sale/use, both felonies. The charges were 
dismissed without prejudice after his sister failed to show up to court. (Items 4, 6, 7) 
In 2019, Applicant called the police during an altercation with his sister and 
brother-in-law stemming from an argument about his brother. When the police arrived, 
he failed to inform them that he was carrying a gun and was ticketed for failure to 
disclose a dangerous weapon. He paid fines and costs the next day at the local city 
building. Records he provided from the district court pertaining to the ticket list a case 
number, offense, and sentence, but do not list a conviction date and list the judge as 
“NA.” Another record called “Docket Lookup – Criminal” refers to the charge as an “e-
ticket.” (Item 4) 
Applicant did not disclose his 2019 weapons charge on his SCA when asked 
whether he received a ticket to appear in court in a criminal proceeding against him or 
when asked if he had ever been charged with an offense involving firearms. Although 
2 
 
 
 
  
    
    
 
    
 
   
    
 
    
     
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
   
   
  
 
 
       
   
  
    
 
 
  
  
  
 
    
  
  
  
    
      
   
      
 
  
 
not alleged in the SOR, he also did not report his 2008 charges on his SCA when asked 
if he had ever been charged with any felony offense. He reported his parents, his wife’s 
parents, and child, but did not report the existence of his three siblings. (Item 3) 
In his SI, Applicant initially denied being charged with any felony offenses until 
the interviewer confronted him with the 2008 charges. Applicant then stated he received 
a letter in July 2008 telling him to come to the police station to be arraigned on charges 
but at the time he did not know what the letter pertained to or what the charges were. 
This directly contradicts the police report that states Applicant was interviewed prior to 
the arrest warrant being issued. He further told the interviewer that his attorney looked 
into the charges , and they were based on camera footage of Applicant fraudulently 
using a credit card at a flower shop, which he said he never did, but that the charges 
were dropped when the prosecuting party did not show up to court. When the 
interviewer asked Applicant if he knew who the prosecuting party was, Applicant said he 
did not. The interviewer then confronted Applicant with the evidence that the 
prosecuting party was Applicant’s sister. He stated he was unaware of her filing any 
police report and had no knowledge of the specifics of her accusations, to include her 
telling the police that she had previously confronted him and asked him to stop opening 
accounts in her name. Applicant was “in shock” when he heard of the fraud charges. 
Applicant then reversed his statement and told the interviewer that his mother had told 
him the charges were from his sister. He assured the interviewer that “the issue was 
sorted out.” (Item 4, 7) 
During this portion of the interview , Applicant disclosed the existence of three 
unreported siblings. He told the interviewer he did not list them on his SCA because he 
thought he did not need to list them since he had no contact with them. He denied that 
the reason he had no contact with them was due to the criminal allegations his sister 
made against him or for any other reasons related to fraudulent or criminal activities . 
(Item 4) 
After discussing the 2008 charges, the interviewer asked Applicant if he had any 
other contact with the police, going through the same list of questions that are asked on 
the SCA, including the question about whether he had ever been charged with a 
firearms offense. Applicant answered no and was confronted with the 2019 charge. He 
explained that he had gotten into an argument with his brother-in-law about his brother’s 
wedding and became scared when his brother -in-law told Applicant’s sister to get a 
shotgun. This was the same sister who had accused him of identity theft in 2008. 
Applicant called 911 and when the police arrived, he did not think to tell them he was 
armed, which is why he was ticketed. The interviewer confronted him with information 
that Applicant had disowned his brother and during this confrontation had threatened to 
kill his sister for continuing to talk to their brother. Applicant disagreed and said he did 
not disown his brother but then reversed his statement and said he did disown his 
brother but did not threaten his sister. He reversed himself again and said he did talk to 
his brother and did not disown him. (Item 4) 
3 
 
 
 
     
  
 
   
     
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
      
  
  
     
    
  
      
 
 
   
   
    
   
     
   
 
     
  
  
   
   
   
 
 
   
  
       
     
 
 
   
      
In his answer to the SOR, Applicant attributed his omission of his siblings to a 
misunderstanding of the SCA instructions but also contended that he would need their 
consent to provide their information. He stated he never had to appear in court for the 
2019 ticket he received, and he believed his failure to report the ticket as a firearm 
charge was a mistake because he thought it was erased from his record. His described 
his interaction with the investigator as an unintentional misunderstanding. With regard to 
the criminal offenses themselves, he stated that he was not arrested but rather 
voluntarily surrendered himself in 2008 and that there was no evidence of wrongdoing, 
and that in the 2019 incident he was unaware of his obligation to report his possession 
of a firearm to the police officer but that the matter was fully resolved. (Item 2) 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and 
commonsense decision. An administrative judge must consider all available and reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 
10865 § 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the 
applicant has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense 
have established for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in 
the personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant 
4 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
     
  
 
  
  
 
   
  
  
   
 
  
 
 
from  being eligible f or access  to classified information. The Government  has the burden  
of establishing controverted facts  alleged in the SOR.  See Egan , 484 U.S.  at 531.  
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.”  See v. 
Washington Metro.  Area Transit Auth., 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The g uidelines  
presume a nexus or  rational connection between proven conduct under any of the  
criteria listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability.  See ISCR Case No.  15 -
01253  at  3 (App. Bd.  Apr. 20, 2016).    
Once the  G overnment establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive  ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of  proving a mitigating condition,  
and the burden of disproving it  never shifts to the  Government.  See  ISCR Case No.  02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep.  22,  2005).   
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent 
with the national interest to grant or continue his security clearance.” ISCR Case No. 
01-20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, 
if they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531. 
Analysis  
Guideline E,  Personal Conduct  
The security concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual ’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to 
cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes. . . . 
The following disqualifying conditions are relevant to this case: 
AG ¶  16(a):  deliberate omission, concealment, or falsification of relevant  
fac
ts from any  personnel  security questionnaire, personal history  
statement,  or similar form  used to conduct investigations,  determine 
employment qualifications,  award benefits or status, determine national  
security eligibility or trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities;  
AG ¶  16( b) : deliberately providing false  or m isleading information; or  
concealing or omitting information, concerning relevant facts  to an  
employer, investigator, security official, competent  medical or  mental  
health professional involved in making a recommendation relevant to a  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
     
     
 
    
 
   
  
 
 
     
  
 
   
  
   
     
   
     
 
   
    
    
 
   
  
    
       
     
   
 
national security  eligibility determination,  or other official government
representative; and  
AG ¶  16(c
 ):  credible adverse information in several  adj udicative issue  
areas that is not sufficient for an adverse determination under any other  
single guideline,  but  which, when considered as a whole, supports  a  
whole-person assessment of  questionable judgment, untrustworthiness,  
unreliability, lack of  candor, unwillingness to comply with rules and  
regulations,  or other  characteristics indicating that the individual  may not  
properly safeguard classified or sensitive information.  
When a
 falsification allegation is controverted, as in this case, the Government 
has the burden of proving it. An omission, standing alone, does not prove falsification. 
An administrative judge must consider the record evidence as a whole to determine an 
applicant’s state of mind at the time of the omission. See ISCR Case No. 03-09483 at 4 
(App. Bd. Nov. 17, 2004). An applicant’s experience and level of education are relevant 
to determining whether a failure to disclose relevant information on a security clearance 
application was deliberate. ISCR Case No. 08-05637 (App. Bd. Sep. 9, 2010). 
Applicant is a mature adult with a college degree. He has lived in this country 
most of his life and graduated from an American high school and university. Based on 
his submissions throughout this process, he does not appear to have any issues 
reading, writing, or understanding English. He was able to provide detailed answers to 
most of the questions asked on the SCA as well as in subsequent interrogatories that 
were sent to him. 
Applicant has a contentious history with his siblings, particularly the sister 
involved in both the 2008 and 2019 incidents, and he does not have contact with them. 
Regardless of guilt or innocence, he has been accused of stealing his sister’s identity 
and fraudulently opening accounts in her name, and years later of threatening to kill her. 
He has also had significant enough conflict with his brother that his family believed 
Applicant had “disowned” him. It is plausible that Applicant was concerned his siblings 
would bring up unfavorable information in his background investigation if he were to 
report them or the related criminal charges, and failed to disclose them as a result . 
Considering this record evidence as a whole, as well as Applicant’s experience and 
level of education, I believe Applicant’s omissions were deliberate rather than a mistake 
or misunderstanding, with the exception of SOR ¶ 1.b, as discussed below. 
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges that Applicant falsified his 2023 SCA by deliberately failing to 
disclose his siblings. Applicant stated that he did not report them because he thought he 
was just supposed to report his wife, child, and parents, and because he does not have 
contact with his siblings . T he plain language of the SCA requires relatives to be 
reported, whether living or dead. Logically, if dead relatives are required to be reported, 
estranged relatives must be reported as well. Applicant also argued that he would have 
to have his siblings’ permission to report them. Even if a relative expressed a 
6 
 
 
 
    
  
   
 
  
   
        
 
    
 
  
    
    
 
  
 
 
       
 
  
 
   
   
  
 
        
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
        
 
      
  
   
 
    
     
     
  
    
 
reservation about disclosing an address or birth date, this does not exempt an Applicant 
from putting the government on notice that they exist, either by just listing their name or 
noting in the “A dditional Comments” section that a relative asked not to be identified. 
Furthermore, given that conflicts with his siblings were the source of his two criminal 
charges, it is very likely that Applicant did not want to report them in order to avoid the 
disclosure of both the criminal incidents and the siblings’ versions of events and 
opinions of Applicant. As to SOR ¶ 1.a, AG ¶ 16(a) is established. 
SOR ¶ 1.b alleges that Applicant falsified his 2023 SCA by deliberately failing to 
disclose his 2019 charge when asked if he had been issued a summons, citation, or 
ticket to appear in court in a criminal proceeding against him in the past seven years. 
He denied the allegation because he never went to court. At the time of the incident, he 
received an “e-ticket” for the offense and paid it the next day at the local city building 
without going to court. There is no evidence that he was given a court date with the e-
ticket. Though the ticket clearly fell under the purview of a criminal court and a court 
date may have eventually been docketed for the ticket if he had not paid it so quickly, 
Applicant’s denial is reasonable because he was never ordered to appear in court for 
the ticket. As to SOR ¶ 1.b, AG ¶ 16(a) is not established. 
SOR ¶ 1.c alleges that Applicant falsified his 2023 SCA by deliberately failing to 
disclose his 2019 charge when asked if he had ever been charged with an offense 
involving firearms. As discussed above, considering the record evidence as a whole, 
particularly the fact that Applicant was given a second chance to report this charge in 
his SI but still had to be confronted with it, it is likely that Applicant deliberately did not 
report this charge so as to avoid his siblings being interviewed or revealing any 
information about the 2008 charges. As to SOR ¶ 1.c, AG ¶ 16(a) is established. 
SOR ¶ 1.d alleges that Applicant falsified material facts during his interview about 
his police record . As discussed in detail above, Applicant initially denied any criminal 
involvement and had to be confronted with his 2008 and 2019 charges. Once 
confronted, he frequently changed his statement s, especially when confronted with 
information that the interviewer had. It was clear from this interview that Applicant did 
not want to discuss his criminal charges and wanted to minimize their details and his 
culpability as much as possible. As to SOR ¶ 1.d, AG ¶ 16(b) is established. 
SOR ¶ 1.e cross -alleges the two Guideline J allegations for the 2008 and 2019 
criminal charges. Although the two criminal charges are several years old, when 
considered alongside the record evidence as a whole, as discussed above, they support 
a whole-person assessment of questionable judgment, untrustworthiness, unreliability, 
lack of candor, and unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations, indicating that 
Applicant may not properly safeguard classified or sensitive information. The nature of 
the charges and Applicant’s actions that led to the charges especially raise concerns 
about his honesty and judgment, the two major characteristics of concern at issue 
throughout this case. AG ¶ 16(c) is established. 
7 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
      
  
 
 
      
    
    
     
   
  
     
 
 
 
   
    
   
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
    
The following mitigating conditions are relevant: 
AG ¶ 17(a): the individual  made  prompt,  good-faith efforts to correct the  
omission, concealment, or falsification before being confronted with the
facts; and  
AG ¶ 17 (c):  t he offense is so minor, or so much time has  pass ed,  or the  
behavior is so infrequent, or it  happened under such  unique 
circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does not cast doubt  on the  
individual’s reliability,  trustworthiness, or  good judgment.  
AG ¶
 17(a) is not established. Applicant did not attempt to correct any of his 
omissions and had to be continually confronted with information that the interview er 
had. 
AG ¶ 17(c) is not established. Applicant’s deliberate falsifications of material facts 
on his SCA and during his SI were recent, frequent, and did not occur under unique 
circumstances. They were not minor, because they undermined the integrity of the 
adjudication of his SCA. Falsification of an SCA “strikes at the heart of the security 
clearance process.” ISCR Case No. 09- 01652 (App. Bd. Aug. 8, 2011.) Furthermore, 
the whole-person assessment of questionable judgment, untrustworthiness, unreliability, 
lack of candor, and unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations discussed above 
is a current and ongoing concern that remains unmitigated. 
Guideline J, Criminal  Conduct  
The concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 30: “Criminal activity creates 
doubt about a person’s judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness. By its very nature, it 
calls into question a person's ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and 
regulations.” 
Applicant’s admissions and the evidence in the FORM establish the following 
disqualifying conditions under this guideline: 
AG ¶ 31(a):  a pattern of minor offenses, any one of which on its own  
woul
d be unlikely to affect  a national security eligibility decision,  but which  
in combination cast  doubt on the individual ’s judgment, reliability, or  
trustworthiness;  and  
AG ¶ 31(b):  evidence  ( including, but  not limited to, a credible allegation,  
an admission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct,
regardless of whether  the individual was formally charged, prosecuted,  or  
convicted.  
The f
ollowing mitigating conditions are potentially relevant: 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
    
   
  
    
    
  
  
 
 
   
   
   
   
    
 
  
 
 
    
  
  
    
 
AG ¶  32(a): so much time has  el apsed since the criminal behavior  
happened,  or it happened under such unusual circumstances, that it is  
unlikely to recur  and  does not cast doubt  on the individual ’s reliability,  
trustworthiness, or  good judgment;  and  
AG ¶ 32(d):  t here is  evidence of successful rehabilitation; including, but  
not limited to, the passage of time without recurrence of criminal  activity,  
restitution, compliance with the terms of parole or probation, job training or  
higher  education, good employment record, or constructive community  
involvement.  
In l
ight of my findings under Guideline E, neither AG ¶ 32(a) nor AG ¶ 32(d) are 
established. Although Applicant’s last criminal charge was six years ago , and the prior 
offense was 17 years ago, the passage of time is undercut by the number of more 
recent falsifications pertaining directly and indirectly to the charges . This series of 
falsifications related to his past criminal charges cast doubt on his current reliability, 
trustworthiness, and good judgment, as discussed under Guideline E. The falsifications 
also undercut any other evidence of rehabilitation such as the passage of time without 
recurrence of criminal activity. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. In applying the whole-
person concept, an administrative judge must evaluate an applicant ’s eligibility for a 
security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct and all relevant 
circumstances. An a dministrative judge should consider the nine adjudicative pr ocess 
factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5)  the  extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of  
rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation  
for the conduct; (8) the potential for  pressure, coercion, exploitation,  or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.   
I have incorporated my comments under Guidelines E and J in my whole-person 
analysis and applied the adjudicative factors in AG ¶ 2(d). Because Applicant requested 
a determination on the record without a hearing, I had no opportunity to evaluate his 
credibility and sincerity based on demeanor. See ISCR Case No. 01-12350 at 3-4 (App. 
Bd. Jul. 23, 2003). 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
      
 
       
       
     
 
    
 
       
 
 
          
      
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
________________________ 
“Once a concern arises regarding an applicant’s security clearance eligibility,  
there is  a strong presumption against the grant or  maintenance of a security clearance.”   
ISCR Case No.  09-01652 at 3 (App. Bd.  Aug. 8, 2011),  citing Dorfmont v. Brown , 913 
F.2d 1399, 1401 (9
th  Cir. 1990),  cert. denied,  4999 U.S. 905 (1991). Applicant  has not  
overcome this presumption.  After  weighing the disqualifying and mitigating conditions  
under Guidelines  E and J  and evaluating all the evidence in the context of the whole  
person, I conclude Applicant  has  not  mitigated the security concerns raised by his  
criminal conduct  and personal conduct, with the exception of SOR  ¶ 1.b.  
For
mal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  Guideline E:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph 1.a :  Agai
nst Applicant 
Subparagraph 1.b:  For Applicant 
Subparagraph 1.c-1.e:  Against Applicant 
Paragraph 2, Guideline J: AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 2.a-2. b:  Agai
nst Applicant 
Conclusion  
I conclude that it is not clearly consistent with the national security interests of 
the United States to grant Applicant eligibility for access to classified information. 
Clearance is denied. 
Robert B. Blazewick 
Chief Administrative Judge 
10 