 
 
 
                                                              
      
               
          
             
 
                                                 
                                                                       
                                                                              
   
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
       
 
                                                             
 
 
  
 
    
    
      
 
 
    
   
    
    
  
 
   
     
 
    
__________ 
__________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-01558 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: George Hawkins, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
08/06/2025 
Decision 
WESLEY, ROGER C. Administrative Judge 
Based upon a review of the case file, pleadings, and exhibits, A pplicant did not 
mitigate financial consideration concerns but mitigated personal conduct concer ns. 
Eligibility for access to classified information or to hold a sensitive position is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On December 27, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
(DSCA) Consolidated Adjudications Services (CAS) sent a statement of reasons (SOR) 
to Applicant detailing reasons why under the financial considerations and personal 
conduct guidelines the DSCA CAS could not make the preliminary affirmative 
determination of eligibility for granting a security clearance, and recommended referral 
to an administrative judge to determine whether a security clearance should be granted, 
continued, denied, or revoked. The action was taken under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 
10865, Safeguarding Cl assified I nformation within Industry (February 20, 1960); 
Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program , DoD Directive 
5220.6 (January 2, 1992) ( Directive); and Security Executive Agent Directive 4, 
1 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
  
    
       
 
   
     
     
        
 
   
     
   
 
      
   
      
   
 
 
     
     
 
 
    
  
   
 
 
     
   
   
 
  
      
   
 
      
 
 
     
   
   
 
establishing in Appendix A the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for 
Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a 
Sensitive Position (AGs), effective June 8, 2017. 
Applicant responded to the SOR on January 28, 2025, and elected to have his 
case decided on the written recor d in lieu of a hearing. He received the File of Relevant 
Material (FORM) on April 13, 2025, and interposed no FORM objections. He did not 
respond with new information. The case was assigned to me on July 2, 2025. 
Summary  of Pleadings  
Under Guideline F, Applicant allegedly accumulated five delinquent debts 
exceeding $38,000. Allegedly, these debts have not been paid and remain unresolved 
and outstanding. 
Under Guideline E, Applicant allegedly falsified his electronic questionnaires for 
Investigations processing (e- QIP) of December 2023, by (a) deliberately failing to 
disclose his past use of marijuana when responding to section 23 and (b) deliberately 
failing to disclose his March 2007 felony drug possession conviction when responding to 
section 22.. 
In Applicant’s response to the SOR, he denied most of the allegations without 
explanations or clarifications. He admitted only the allegations covered by SOR ¶ 2.a. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 44-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security 
clearance. The admitted allegations are incorporated and adopted as r elevant and 
material findings. Additional findings follow. 
Background  
Applicant married in June 2010 and has no children. (GE 3)  He earned a 
bachelor’s degree in May 2003 and a master’s degree in May 2006. (GE 3) He reported 
no military service. 
Since October 2023, Applicant has been employed as a part -time contractor for 
his current employer , who is his sponsor for a security clearance. (GEs 3 and 5) 
.Contemporaneously with his current employment he reported self -employment 
between April 2013 and December 2023. (GE 3) He reported unemployment between 
February 2018 and June 2019. (GE 3) He has never held a security clearance. (GE3) 
Applicant’s finances  
Between 20 18 and 202 2, Applicant accumulated f ive delinquent consumer 
accounts exceeding $38,000. He attributed his debts to insufficient income to satisfy all 
of his debts before they became delinquent. (GE 5) 
2 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
   
  
 
   
    
 
      
   
    
   
   
 
 
 
     
     
       
    
 
 
   
    
  
    
     
     
  
 
 
 
   
    
   
    
 
      
   
      
 
             
 
    
 
  
Applicant’s compiled credit reports from 2024 and 2025 reveal no tangible 
progress in addressing his debts covered by the SOR. (GEs 6- 8) While his personal 
interview (PSI) responses include commitments to address his listed debt delinquencies 
in furtherance of his plans to buy a home,(GE 5), he has provided no tangible evidence 
of. paying or otherwise resolving any of the debts listed in the SOR. (GEs 4-8) 
According to Applicant’s October 2024 personal financial statement, he nets 
monthly income of $ 9,200, incurs monthly expenses of $ 8,379, and accrues monthly 
debts of $1 25 associated with two non- SOR debts . (GE 4) This leaves him with a 
reported monthly remainder of $821. Because he provided no financial information as to 
how his monthly remainder is being utilized, it remains unclear as to how he employs 
his available disposable funds. 
Applicant’s  e-QIP  omissions  
Asked to complete an e- QIP in December 2023, Applicant omitted his pas t 
marijuana use within the past seven years and felony drug possession arrest and 
conviction in March 2007. (GEs 3 and 9) His falsification denials and explanations of 
his marijuana arrest and felony drug p ossession conviction are not enough to avert 
drawn inferences of knowing and willful omission. 
When afforded an opportunity to disclose his past marijuana use and felony 
illegal drug possession conviction in his scheduled March 2024 PSI, Applicant 
voluntarily opened up about his drug activity (marijuana and hallucinogenic mushrooms) 
and fully disclosed his past marijuana and mushroom use and felony marijuana 
possession arrest and conviction. (GE 5) Applicant made his disclosures without any 
detectable confrontation or pro mpting. Applicant’s voluntary PSI disclosures are 
unchallenged and accepted. 
Policies  
By virtue of the jurisdictional principles recognized by the U.S. Supreme Court in 
Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988), “no one has a right to a 
security clearance.” As Commander in Chief, “the President has the authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual 
is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. 
Eligibility for access to classified information may only be granted “upon a finding 
that it is clearly consistent with the national interest to do so. ” Exec. Or. 10865, 
Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Application approvals for a security clearance is predicated upon the a pplicant 
meeting the criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not 
inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these 
guidelines are applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’ s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial , and 
3 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
  
    
 
           
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
     
  
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
commonsense decision. An administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The AGs list guidelines to be considered by judges in the decision-making process 
covering DOHA cases. These AG guidelines take into account factors that could create a 
potential conflict of interest for the individual applicant, as well as considerations that 
could affect the individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified 
information. The AG guidelines include conditions that could raise a security concern and 
may be disqualifying (disqualifying conditions), if any, and all of the conditions that could 
mitigate security concerns, if any. 
These guidelines must be considered before deciding whether or not a security 
clearance should be granted, continued, or denied. Although, the guidelines do not 
require judges to place exclusive reliance on the enumerated disqualifying and mitigating 
conditions in the guidelines in arriving at a decision. 
In addition to the relevant AGs, judges must take into account the pertinent 
considerations for assessing extenuation and mitigation set forth in ¶ 2(a) of the AGs, 
which are intended to assist the judges in reaching a fair and impartial, commonsense 
decision based on a careful consideration of the pertinent guidelines within the context 
of the whole person. The adjudicative process is designed to examine a sufficient period 
of an applicant’s life to enable predictive judgments to be made about whether the 
applicant is an acceptable security risk. 
When evaluating an applicant’s conduct, the relevant guidelines are to be 
considered together with the following ¶ 2(d) factor s: ( 1) the nature, extent, and 
seriousness of the conduct; (2) the circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include 
knowledgeable participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to which 
participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation and other 
permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation of the conduct; (8) the potential for 
pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the likelihood of continuation or 
recurrence. 
Viewing the issues raised and evidence as a whole, the following individual 
guidelines are pertinent herein: 
Financial Considerations  
The Concern: Failure or inability to live within one’s means, satisfy debts  
and meet financial  obligations  may indicate poor self -control, lack of  
judgment, or  unwillingness to abide by rules or regulations, all of which  
can raise questions about an individual’s  reliability, trustworthiness and  
ability to protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can 
also be caused or  exacerbated by,  and thus  can be a possible indicator of  
other issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling,  
mental health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or  
4 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
 
      
       
   
 
  
   
  
   
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
    
 
   
       
   
 
 
 
   
   
     
   
     
        
   
    
   
  
         
 
dependence. An individual who is financially overextended is  at  greater  
risk of having to engage in illegal acts  or otherwise questionable acts to  
generate  funds.  . . . AG ¶  18.    
  
Personal Conduct  
The Concern: Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of 
candor, dishonesty, or unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations 
can raise questions about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and 
ability to protect classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is 
any failure to cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during 
national security investigative or adjudicative processes.  . .  . AG ¶ 15. 
Burdens of Proof  
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. 
Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk the a pplicant 
may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. Such decisions 
entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation about potential, rather than 
actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Clearance decisions must be “ in 
terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty 
of the applicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 § 7. See also Exec. Or. 12968 (Aug. 
2, 1995), § 3.1. 
Initially, the  G overnment must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in  
the per sonal  or professional history of  the a pplicant that may disqualify the  a pplicant  
from being eligible for  access  to classified information. The  Government has  the burden  
of establishing controverted facts  alleged in the SOR.  See  Egan, 484 U.S.  at 531.   
“Substantial evidence”  is  “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance. ”   See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth., 36 F.3d 375,  380 (4
th  Cir. 1994).   
T
he AGs presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under 
any of the criteria listed therein and an a pplicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case 
No. 95-0611 at 2 (App. Bd. May 2, 1996). 
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition by substantial 
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it 
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue his [or her] security 
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01 -20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). The burden of 
disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the G overnment. See ISCR Case No. 
02-31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, 
if they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; see AG ¶ 2(b). 
5 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
    
  
 
   
   
 
 
  
  
  
     
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
   
 
   
  
 
    
 
    
 
    
  
     
    
    
 
 
  
Analysis  
Security concerns are raised over Applicant’s accumulation of delinquent debts 
over a considerable period without documented evidence of addressing these debts 
with the resources currently available to him. Additional security concerns are raised 
over his falsification of the e-QIP he completed in 2024, where he failed to disclose his 
many years of marijuana use and 2007 felony conviction of possession of illegal drugs. 
Financial concerns  
Applicant’s accumulated delinquent debts warrant the application of three of the 
disqualifying conditions (DC) of the financial consideration guidelines. DC ¶¶ 19(a), 
“inability to satisfy debts”; 19(b), “unwillingness to satisfy debts regardless of the ability 
to do so”;  and 19(c), “a history of not meeting financial obligations.” 
Financial stability in a person cleared to protect classified information is required 
precisely to inspire trust and confidence in the holder of a security clearance that 
entitles the person to access classified information. While the principal concern of a 
security clearance holder’s demonstrated difficulties is vulnerability to coercion and 
influence, judgment and trust concerns are implicit in cases involving delinquent debts. 
Historically, the timing of addressing and resolving an applicant’s debt 
delinquencies are critical to an assessment of the applicant’s trustworthiness, reliability, 
and good judgment in following rules and guidelines necessary for those seeking 
access to classified information or to holding a sensitive position. See ISCR Case No. 
14-06808 at 3 (App. Bd. Nov. 23. 2016); ISCR Case No. 14- 01894 at 5 (App. Bd. Aug. 
18, 2015); ISCR Case No. 14-00221 at 2-5 (App. Bd. June 29, 2016). 
Applicant is entitled to partial application of mitigating condition (MC) ¶ 20(b), “the 
conditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely beyond the person’s 
control (e.g., loss of employment, a business downturn, unexpected medical 
emergency, a death, divorce or separation, clear victimization by predatory lending 
practices, or identity theft), and the individual acted responsibly under the 
circumstances,” in instances associated with his reported unemployment. However, he 
is unable to meet the mitigation requirements of the second prong of MC ¶ 20(b) (“and 
the individual acted responsibly under the circumstances”). 
Without documented evidence of Applicant’s  paying or otherwise  resolving his  
current debt delinquencies, other  potentially available mitigating conditions are not  
available to him.  In  the past, the Appeal Board has consistently imposed evidentiary  
burdens  on applicants to provide documentation corroborating actions  taken to resolve  
financial  problems, whether the issues relate to back taxes or other  debts  and accounts.  
See  ISCR Case No.  19-02593 at  4-5 (App. Bd. Oct. 18, 2021);  ISCR Case No. 19-
01599 at  3 (App. Bd. Jan. 20, 2020). Afforded opportunities  to do so, Applicant  has  
provided insufficient information on the status of his debts  and available financial  
resources to address  them .  
6 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
        
  
  
 
   
   
  
  
  
 
   
   
    
    
    
   
  
 
     
 
  
 
  
  
     
  
  
  
   
 
   
   
 
     
    
 
   
    
     
 
 
    
    
    
 
Personal Conduct  concerns  
More concerning is Applicant’s omission of his marijuana use and 2007 felony 
drug possession conviction in the e- QIP he completed in December 2023. Drawn 
inferences of knowing and willful omission covered illegal drug possession under federal 
law that are material to the Government investigation of Applicant’s security clearance 
eligibility. Applicable to Applicant’s e-QIP omissions is DC ¶ 16(a), “deliberate omission, 
concealment, or falsification of relevant facts from any personnel security questionnaire, 
personal history statement, or similar form used to conduct investigations, determine 
employment qualifications, award benefits or status, determine national security 
eligibility or trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities.” 
Voluntary disclosures of adverse information are always encouraged. Without 
any evidence of confrontation or prompting by the interviewing OPM investigator in his 
ensuing 2025 PSI, Applicant fully disclosed his past marijuana use. His documented 
voluntary corrections of his e-QIP omissions when asked about his past use of 
marijuana entitle him to the mitigation benefits of MC ¶17(a), “the individual made 
prompt, good faith efforts to correct the omission, concealment, or falsification before 
being confronted with the facts,” 
With no bright line definitions of the term “prompt” to work with, the Appeal Board 
recently found an applicant’s two-month delay in making corrections to be reasonable 
under all of the circumstances considered. See ISCR Case No. 22-02601 at 5 (App. Bd. 
Feb. 22, 2024). Whether four months of elapsed time preceding voluntary disclosure 
can be stretched to meet the Appeal Board’s reasonableness test for satisfying the 
“prompt” prong of MC  ¶ 17(a) is still an open question. In previous Appeal Board 
decisions, the Board has drawn more restrictive definitions of the term “prompt” in 
situations where the applicant was a facility security officer (FSO) who was in a position 
to know and respect the importance and urgency of making timely disclosures. 
Compare  DISCR Case No. 93 -1390 at 5- 7 (App. Bd. Jan. 27, 1995) And, clearly the 
circumstances in this 1995 Appeal Board decision are distinguishable from the facts in 
Applicant’s case. Unlike in the 1995 decision, Applicant was not a facility clearance 
officer (FSO) with a clearance. 
In Applicant’s case, his voluntary disclosures of his marijuana use and 2007 
felony conviction for marijuana possession were made in the first scheduled opportunity 
he had to speak to a government investigator after completing his 2023 e- QIP. With a 
DOHA policy of encouragement of voluntary disclosures and the absence of any bright 
lines to assess the limits of the prompt prong of MC ¶ 17(a), Applicant’s credited 
voluntary disclosures in his PSI are construed to satisfy MC ¶ 17(a). 
Whole-person assessment  
Whole-person assessment of Applicant’s clearance eligibility requires 
consideration of whether his history of marijuana use and re- QIP omissions of his 
marijuana use and 2007 f elony marijuana possession arrest and conviction. When 
taken together contextually, his payment lapses associated with his listed SOR debts 
7 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
   
 
  
 
   
    
  
  
    
  
  
 
    
   
    
     
     
 
 
   
      
 
 
                                    
 
         
    
                         
  
 
     
      
    
 
 
 
   
 
_____________ 
reflect collective judgment lapses incompatible with his holding a security clearance. 
Only his coming forward with his voluntary disclosures of his past marijuana use and 
2007 felony arrest and conviction contain enough evidence  of corrective actions taken 
by Applicant mitigate raised security concerns. 
From a whole- person perspective, Applicant has not established enough 
independent probative evidence of his overall, trustworthiness, reliability, and good 
judgment required of those who seek eligibility to hold a security clearance or sensitive 
position. While he is deserving of considerable credit for the contributions he has made 
to the defense industry, he has not produced enough positive reinforcements of his 
overall honesty and trustworthiness to facilitate safe predictions he is at no risk of 
recurrent candor lapses. 
I have fully applied the law, as set forth in Department of Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 
518 (1988), Exec. Or. 10865, the Directive, and the AGs, to the facts and circumstances 
in the context of the whole person. I conclude that financial considerations concerns are 
not mitigated. Personal conduct security concerns are mitigated. Eligibility for access to 
classified information is denied. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
      GUIDELINE  F  (FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS):    AGAINST  APPLICANT  
 
  Subparagraphs 1.a-1.e:          Against A pplicant  
    FOR APPLICANT  
       For  Applicant  
GUIDELINE  E  (PERSONAL CONDUCT):  
 Subparagraphs  2.a-2.b:     
Conclusion  
In lig
ht of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance.  Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Roger C. Wesley 
Administrative Judge 
8 