 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                    
          
           
             
 
 
 
 
  
  
                
   
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
    
  
   
 
    
  
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTM
ENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-01618 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: 
John Renehan, Esquire, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: 
Pro se 
06/17/2025 
Decision 
CEFOLA, Richard A., Administrative Judge: 
Statement  of the Case  
On September 25, 2024, in accordance with DoD Directive 5220.6, as amended 
(Directive), the Department of Defense issued Applicant a Statement of Reasons (SOR) 
alleging facts that raise security concerns under Guideline F (Financial Considerations). 
The SOR further informed Applicant that, based on information available to the 
government, DoD adjudicators could not make the preliminary affirmative finding that it is 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue Applicant’s security 
clearance. 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
  
  
 
   
    
      
   
 
 
   
     
 
   
   
    
      
        
  
     
        
 
 
   
     
     
   
      
  
 
 
    
  
    
     
  
Appl icant answered the SOR on October 25, 2024, and requested a hearing before 
an administrative judge. (Answer.) The case was assigned to me on April 10, 2025. The 
Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a notice of hearing on April 15, 
2025, scheduling the hearing for May 14, 2025. The hearing was convened as scheduled. 
The Government offered Exhibits (GXs) 1 through 5, which were admitted into evidence. 
Applicant testified on his own behalf. The record was left open until June 14, 2025, for 
receipt of additional documentation. Applicant presented nothing further. DOHA received 
the transcript of the hearing (TR) on May 27, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant admitted all the allegations in SOR. After a thorough and careful review 
of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. 
Applicant is a 30-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been 
employed with the defense contractor since September of 2023. Applicant previously held 
a security clearance, while on active duty with the U.S. Army from 2015 to 2018. He was 
medically retired from the Army as the result of his service in Afghanistan. Applicant is 
divorced, but remarried. His current wife is unemployed. Applicant has one child from his 
first marriage , for whom he provides child support , and two children from his current 
marriage. (TR at page 5 line 20 to page 6 line 9, at page 13 line 15 to page 19 line 12, at 
page 40 lines 1~23, and GX 1 at pages 5, 10, 11, 13, 18~19, and 24~25.) 
Guideline F - Financial Considerations  
Unbeknownst to Applicant, the alleged past-due debts were incurred by his former 
spouse while he was serving in Afghanistan. When he returned from his deployment, 
Applicant’s spouse “went missing” for two to three years. She had settled in another state, 
where divorce proceedings were eventually initiated, which resulted in Applicant incurring 
responsibility for their indebtedness by virtue of hi s “parenting court order.” (TR at page 
19 line 18 to page 34 line 19.) 
 1.
a.  Applicant  admits the past-due debt  to Creditor  A  in the amount of about  
$13,353.  He has  had little correspondence with this creditor; and despite  have a month  
to do so, has submitted nothing further in this regard.  (TR at page 34 line 24 to page 36  
line 19.) This allegation is found against  Applicant.  
1.b. A
pplicant admits the past -due debt to Creditor B in the amount of about 
$2,098. He avers that he knows little about this debt; and despite have a month to do so, 
has submitted nothing further in this regard. (TR at page 3 6 line 21 to page 3 7 line 3.) 
This allegation is found against Applicant. 
2 
 
 
 
 1.c. Applicant admits  the past -due  debt to  Creditor C in the amount of  about  
$1,765. He  is familiar with  this debt; but  despite have a m onth to do so, has  submitted  
nothing further in this regard. (TR  at  page 37  lines  4~20.) This  allegation is found against  
Applicant.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1.d.  Applicant admits the past-due debt to Creditor  D  in the amount  of about $686. 
He is unfamiliar with this debt;  but  despite have a month to do so, has submitted nothing  
further in this regard. (TR at page 37 line 21 to page 38 line 13.) This allegation is found 
against Applicant.  
 
 1.e. Applicant admits the past-due debt to Creditor E in the amount  of about  $468. 
He is  also unfamiliar  with this debt; but despite have a month to do so,  has submitted  
nothing further in this regard. (TR at  page 38  lines  4~8.) This allegation is found against  
Applicant.  
 
 1.f. Applicant admits the past-due debt to Creditor  F  in the amount of about $240. 
He is familiar with this  gym-membership debt; but  despite have a  month to do so, has  
submitted nothing further in this regard. (TR at page 38  lines  9~23.) This allegation is  
found against Applicant.  
 
 1.g. Applicant admits the past-due debt to Creditor G in the amount of about $977. 
He is unfamiliar with this debt;  but  despite have a month to do so, has submitted nothing  
further in this regard. (TR at page 3 8  line 24  to page 3 9  line  4.) This  allegation is found
against Applicant.  
 
 
 
   
   
    
    
  
 
 
   
    
   
 
      
   
 
 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s national security eligibility, the administrative judge 
must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief introductory 
explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially disqualifying 
conditions and m itigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an applicant ’s 
national security eligibility. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The administrative 
judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. 
According to AG ¶ 2(a), the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of 
variables known as the whole- person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
      
  
  
 
      
     
   
      
    
 
      
    
    
    
   
     
   
  
 
 
   
   
    
    
 
 
 
   
  
 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical , and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR . Directive ¶ E3.1.15 states the “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel , and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable clearance decision.” 
A person who applies for access to classified information seeks to enter into a 
fiduciary relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation as to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Section 7 of Executive Order (EO) 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be 
“in terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty 
of the applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple 
prerequisites for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline F - Financial Considerations  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Financial Considerations is set 
out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's  means, satisfy debts, and meet financial  
obligations may  indicate poor  self-control, lack of judgment, or  
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise  
questions about  an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to  
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial  distress can  also be  
caused or exacerbated by,  and thus can be a possible indicator of, other  
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling,  mental  
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
     
 
 
   
 
     
     
 
  
   
 
 
 
   
  
   
 
 
    
     
     
     
 
 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An  
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to  
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds.  
Affluence that  cannot be explained by  known sources of income is also a  
security concern insofar as it  may result from criminal activity, including  
espionage.  
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. Two are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) inability to satisfy  debts
 ;  and  
(c) a hist
ory of not meeting financial obligations. 
Applicant has about $19,587 of past-due debt, most of which was incurred by his 
former spouse. The evidence is sufficient to raise these disqualifying conditions. 
AG ¶ 20 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. I considered 
all of the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 including: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
under
 such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast doubt  
on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good judgment;  
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial  probl em were largely beyond  
the per son's  control (e.g.,  loss of  employment, a business downturn,  
unexpected medical  emergency, a death, divorce or separation, clear  
victimization by  predatory  lending practi ces, or identity theft),  and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;  and  
(e) the in
dividual has a reasonable basis to dispute the legitimacy of the 
past-due debt which is the cause of the problem and provides documented 
proof to substantiate the basis of the dispute or provides evidence of actions 
to resolve the issue. 
Although Applicant can attribute the vast majority of his admitted, past -due 
indebtedness to his former spouse, as a result of his divorce, Applicant has assumed that 
debt and done little to address it. Applicant’s financial problems are ongoing. He has not 
demonstrated that future financial problems are unlikely. Mitigation under AG ¶ 20 has 
not been established. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
       
     
 
  
 
 
 
    
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
    
    
    
  
 
 
      
    
 
  
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; ( 5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Under AG ¶ 2( c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a security 
clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guideline F in my whole -person analysis. Overall, the record evidence leaves me with 
questions and doubts as to Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance . 
For these reasons, I conclude Applicant failed to mitigate the Financial Considerations 
security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by ¶ E3.1.25 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  Guideline F:  AGAINST  APPLI
 CANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a~1 .g:  Against  Applicant  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
    
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant national security eligibility 
for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Richard A. Cefola 
Administrative Judge 
7 