    
 
  
 
  
        
         
           
             
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
  
 
  
   
   
 
   
  
  
     
  
  
 
   
    
 
  
___________ 
___________ 
DEPAR
TMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of:  )  
 )  
  )   ISCR Case No. 24-01588  
  )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance   )  
 
Appearances  
For Government: Mark D. Lawton, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
07/23/2025 
Decision 
PRICE, Eric C., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant mitigated Guideline E (Personal Conduct) security concerns, but did not 
mitigate Guideline H (Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse) security concerns . 
Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on December 5, 2023. 
On December 13, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) 
sent him a Statement of Reasons (SOR) alleging security concerns under Guidelines E 
and H. The DCSA acted under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of 
Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance 
Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the adjudicative 
guidelines (AG) promulgated in Security Executive Agent Directive 4, National Security 
Adjudicative Guidelines (December 10, 2016), which became effective on June 8, 2017. 
On December 17, 2024, Applicant answered the SOR and requested a decision 
on the written record in lieu of a hearing. On February 25, 2025, Department Counsel 
submitted the Government’s File of Relevant Material (FORM) including documents 
identified as Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 4 . GE 1 is the SOR and Applicant’s 
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
 
 
     
      
 
 
       
       
  
 
        
 
     
          
        
   
      
    
 
        
     
   
  
     
 
     
   
   
 
 
     
   
   
      
      
   
    
 
     
      
      
Answer, which are the pleadings in the case. Applicant received the FORM on March 5 , 
2025. He was afforded an opportunity to file objections and submit material in refutation, 
extenuation, or mitigation within 30 days of receipt of the FORM. Applicant submitted an 
undated response to the FORM. There were no objections by Applicant, and GE 1 through 
4 are admitted into evidence. The case was assigned to me on June 10, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
In Applicant’s December 17, 2024 response to the SOR, he admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 
2.a-2.b, and 2.d. He denied SOR ¶ 2.c with an explanation. (GE 1) His admissions are 
incorporated in my findings of fact. 
Applicant is a 24-year-old tool room attendant employed by a federal contractor 
since November 2023. He graduated from high school in 2019. He is not married and has 
no children. He has not had a security clearance. (GE 2) 
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges Applicant was fired from employment at an auto dealership in 
about April 2023 for violating his employer’s drug policy by bringing a marijuana vape pen 
onto company property. He had a marijuana vape pen in his pocket from the previous 
night and brought it to his workplace by accident. The vape pen fell out of his pocket, and 
he admitted that it was his when asked by a manager. He has not used marijuana at his 
place of employment. The use of marijuana is lawful in State A, where he lived and was 
employed. (GE 1-4) His former employer’s records show Applicant “was aware this is a 
violation of the handbook.” (GE 4 at 2) 
SOR ¶¶ 2.a and 2.b allege he purchased and used marijuana from about 2021 to 
October 2024 , and SOR ¶ 2. d cross-alleges the conduct alleged in SOR ¶ 1 .a. In his 
December 17, 2024 response to the SOR, Applicant admitted the allegations. He denied 
that he intended to continue to use marijuana in the future, SOR ¶ 2.c, stating he had “no 
interest to continue usage, as I understand the implications associated with it.” (GE 1) 
In his December 5, 2023 SCA, Applicant denied illegally using or purchasing any 
drugs or controlled substances in the last seven years. (GE 2 at 27 -28) The sentence in 
the SCA immediately preceding questions about the illegal use of drugs or controlled 
substances states: “The following questions pertain to the illegal use of drugs or controlled 
substances or drug or controlled substance activity in accordance with Federal laws, even 
though permissible under state laws.” (GE 2 at 27) During a January 19, 2024 subject 
interview (S/ I) with a government investigator, he voluntarily disclosed he smoked 
marijuana or consumed marijuana edibles purchased from a dispensary about four times 
a week from 2021 until the date of his S/I. He used marijuana to relax and to help him 
sleep. He stated his intent to continue to use marijuana responsibly. He did not list his 
drug use on his SCA due to oversight and reported no negative impacts on his personal 
or professional life due to his marijuana use. (GE 3 at 10) 
In his October 25 , 2024 response to i nterrogatories, Applicant reported first 
purchasing and using marijuana in December 2021. He used it three to four times a week 
and last used it on October 12, 2024. He purchased marijuana every few months and last 
2 
 
 
     
  
   
  
       
 
   
   
   
    
     
 
      
   
    
     
    
   
    
      
   
    
 
   
 
   
   
   
     
 
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
    
purchased it on October 15, 2024. (GE 3 at 2-3) He stated his intentions for future use 
were “Responsible Recreational. None if required,” and that he used it in accordance with 
state law in his free time and never at work. “If abstinence is required for my career, I will 
do so.” (GE 3 at 2-3) He reported that he first became aware that marijuana use remained 
illegal under federal law in October 2024, when he reviewed the interrogatories, and then 
stated he did not intend to continue to use marijuana in the future. (GE 3 at 4-5) He sees 
one friend about twice a year who uses marijuana and stated that if in an environment 
where marijuana was being used, he “can make good decisions and refuse.” He reported 
that he was required to take a pre-employment drug test for his current employer, that he 
was not subject to random drug tests by his employer, and that he had not tested positive 
for any illegal substances on any drug tests. (GE 3 at 5-6) 
In his undated response to the FORM , Applicant cited his commitment to his job 
and the military community he supports. He noted his work around classified information 
and processes. He cited his honesty and transparency with the government investigator. 
He noted his family’s military history and focus on integrity, honesty, and discipline. He 
pledged his willingness to do anything necessary to maintain the trust and responsibility 
of a security clearance . He admitted to making some mistakes in the past and believes 
that “honesty is the only way forward.” He also submitted a “Physician Statement” dated 
February 12, 2025, that stated he was permitted to use, possess and/or cultivate medical 
marijuana under the law of State A until February 12, 2026. (FORM response) 
Policies  
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion of the Executive 
Branch in regulating access to information pertaining to national security emphasizing, 
“no one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 
518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual 
is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The President 
has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicant’s eligibility for 
access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly consistent with the 
national interest to do so.” EO 10865. 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for national security eligibility, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and common sense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
3 
 
 
      
 
 
  
    
 
  
  
 
     
  
   
   
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
 
  
 
  
 
    
  
 
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
    
 
  
   
   
 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. Likewise, I have avoided drawing inferences grounded on mere 
speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Directive ¶ E3.1.15 states an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel, and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable clearance decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
that an applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that decisions shall be “in terms of the national 
interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline E,  Personal Conduct  
The security concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual ’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to 
cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes. . . . 
Applicant’s admissions and other record evidence show he violated his employer’s 
drug policy by bringing a marijuana vape pen onto company property in State A. This 
establishes the following disqualifying conditions under AG ¶ 16: 
4 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
     
   
  
    
 
  
 
   
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
    
     
   
    
 
 
(d) credible adverse information that is not explicitly covered under any  
ot
her guideline  and may not be sufficient by itself for an adverse  
determination,  but which, when c ombined with all available information,  
supports a whole- person assessment of  questionable judgment,  
trustworthiness, unreliability, lack of candor, unwillingness to  comply with  
rules and regulations,  or other characteristics indicating that  the individual  
may  not properly safeguard classified or sensitive information. This  
includes, but is not  limited to, consideration of:  . . . . (2) any disruptive,  
violent, or  other  inappropriate behavior….; and   
(f) violation of a written or recorded commitment  m ade by the individual to  
the employer  as a condition of employment.  
The f
ollowing mitigating condition under AG ¶ 17 is potentially applicable: 
(c) the offense is so minor, or so much time has passed, or the behavior is  
so infrequent, or it happened under such unique circumstances that it is  
unlikely to recur  and  does not cast doubt  on the individual ’s reliability,  
trustworthiness, or  good judgment.  
This mitigating condition is established. Applicant’s unintentional possession of a 
marijuana vape on his employer’s property in a state where marijuana use was lawful was 
minor and occurred more than two years ago under circumstances unlikely to recur. It 
does not cast doubt on his current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment. 
Guideline H, Drug Involvement and Substance Abuse 
AG ¶ 24 expresses the security concern pertaining to drug involvement: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any “controlled substance” as 
defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in 
this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
Applicant’s admissions, varying statements regarding his intent to use or not use 
marijuana in the future, and his medical marijuana card dated February 15, 2025 obtained 
after stating he had no intent to continue using marijuana, establish the following three 
disqualifying conditions under AG ¶ 25: 
(a) any substance misuse (see above definition);  
5 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
  
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
    
 
   
    
      
  
 
    
     
 
(c)  illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation,  
pr
ocessing,  manufacture, purchase, sale,  or  distribution; or possession of  
drug paraphernalia;   and  
(g) expressed intent  t o continue drug involvement and substance misuse,  
or failure  to  clearly  and convincingly commit to discontinue such misuse.  
The f
ollowing mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 26 are potentially applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or  happened  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur  or does not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability,  trustworthiness,  or good judgment;  and  
(b) the individual acknowledges  hi s or her drug involvement and substance  
misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and  
has established a pattern of  abstinence, including, but not limited to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-us ing associates and contacts;  
(2) changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were  
us
ed; and  
(3)  providing a signed statement  o f  intent to abstain from  all    
drug involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that   
any future involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation of   
national security eligibility.   
The D
OHA Appeal Board recently noted that “the evolving landscape of marijuana 
law and policy in the United States informs us that simple recreational marijuana use no 
longer holds the same severe negative implications as many other illegal drugs 
[recreational marijuana use may deserve less, or even no negative inference] ,” which is 
“especially . . . true when the use occurs permissibly under state law.” ISCR Case No. 
24-00914 at 3 (App. Bd. April 9, 2025) (citations omitted). 
Several factors are important in the assessment of mitigation of marijuana 
possession and use: the duration of abstinence; state law; company policy; use after 
completion of an SCA; use while holding a sensitive position; use while having access to 
classified information; and broken promises not to use in the future. See ISCR 24-01001 
(App. Bd. Apr. 22, 2025) (affirming denial of security clearance; factors: one year of 
abstinence from marijuana use; used marijuana after completion of an SCA; used 
marijuana after promising not to use marijuana on SCA and during an OPM interview); 
ISCR Case No. 24 -01005 at 5 (App. Bd. Apr. 11, 2025) (denial of security clearance 
reversed; factors: two years of abstinence from marijuana use; no marijuana use while 
holding a security clearance or occupying sensitive position; marijuana possession and 
use permissible under state law; no marijuana use after notice that marijuana use was 
federally illegal; visible commitment to abandoning all future drug involvement). 
6 
 
 
     
    
    
     
    
     
      
    
    
     
 
 
   
   
     
   
  
 
          
     
       
  
        
    
      
  
 
   
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
Applicant purchased and used marijuana from December 2021 until October 2024. 
He stated his intent to continue to use marijuana responsibly in January 2024. In his 
October 25, 2024 response to interrogatories he stated h is intent to continue to use 
marijuana responsibly (in accordance with state law) but said he would abstain from 
further use if required to qualify for a security clearance. While reviewing the 
interrogatories Applicant realized the use of marijuana remained prohibited under federal 
law and then stated he did not intend to use it in the future. In his December 17, 2024, 
response to the SOR, he stated that he had “no interest to continue usage, as I 
understand the implications associated with it.” On February 15, 2025, he obtained a 
medical marijuana card that permitted him to use, possess and/or cultivate medical 
marijuana under the law of State A until February 12, 2026. 
There is no evidence Applicant purchased or used marijuana in a state where such 
conduct was prohibited under state law, and I find that his purchases from dispensaries 
and use of marijuana in State A were lawful under state law. He is credited with voluntarily 
disclosing his involvement with marijuana during his January 2024 S/I and for the 
remainder of the security clearance process. 
AG ¶¶ 26(a) and 26(b) are not fully established. Applicant’s purchase and use of 
marijuana for more than three and a half years was not infrequent and his purchase and 
use of marijuana in October 2024 were recent. Although Applicant declared his intent to 
abstain from using marijuana in the future after learning it was unlawful under federal law, 
his procurement of a medical marijuana card in State A several months later undermines 
the credibility of his stated intent to abstain from using marijuana. The evidence is 
insufficient to establish that his substance misuse is unlikely to recur. His behavior casts 
doubt on his current reliability, trustworthiness and good judgment. 
In addition, Applicant submitted no evidence he has disassociated from drug-using 
associates and contacts, no evidence that he has avoided the environments where he 
used drugs, and he has not submitted the signed statement required by AG ¶ 26(b)(3). 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all the circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
7 
 
 
   
  
     
 
  
  
 
    
  
  
   
  
   
    
       
   
    
 
   
 
  
  
    
  
   
    
     
 
    
   
   
  
   
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
      
     
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guidelines E and H in my whole-person analysis. Some of the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) were 
addressed under those guidelines, but some warrant additional comment. 
I considered Applicant’s age, work history, and that he disclosed his drug 
involvement and substance misuse in his January 2024 S/I and on multiple occasions 
thereafter. I considered that there is no evidence he purchased or used marijuana in a 
state where such purchase or use was prohibited under state law. I considered that after 
Applicant learned the purchase and use of marijuana was prohibited under federal law, 
he declared his intent not to use it again on October 25, 2024 , and again on December 
17, 2024. I also considered that in February 2025, he obtained a medical marijuana card 
valid for the use, possession and cultivation of marijuana in State A until February 2026. 
It is well settled that once a concern arises regarding an applicant’s security 
clearance eligibility, there is a strong presumption against granting a security clearance. 
See Dorfmont v. Brown, 913 F. 2d 1399, 1401. “[A] favorable clearance decision means 
that the record discloses no basis for doubt about an applicant’s eligibility for access to 
classified information.” ISCR Case No. 18-02085 at 7 (App. Bd. Jan. 3, 2020) (citing ISCR 
Case No. 12- 00270 at 3 (App. Bd. Jan. 17, 2014)). Because Applicant requested a 
determination on the record without a hearing, I had no opportunity to observe his 
demeanor, assess his credibility, or question him about his past drug use or future 
intentions. See ISCR Case No. 01-12350 at 3-4 (App. Bd. Jul. 23, 2003). 
I have carefully applied the law, as set forth in Egan, EO 10865, and the Directive 
to the facts and circumstances in the context of the whole person. Applicant failed to meet 
his burden of persuasion, and the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts 
as to his eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. For all these reasons, I conclude 
Applicant mitigated the Guideline E security concerns; however, he failed to mitigate the 
security concerns raised under Guideline H. 
This decision should not be construed as a determination that Applicant cannot or 
will not attain the state of true reform and rehabilitation necessary to be eligible for a 
security clearance. The determination of an individual’s eligibility and suitabilit y for a 
security clearance is not a once in a lifetime occurrence, but is based on applying the 
factors, both disqualifying and mitigating, to the evidence presented. Under his current 
circumstances, a clearance is not warranted. In the future, he may well demonstrate 
persuasive evidence of his security worthiness. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
8 
 
 
 
   
  
     
  
  
    
 
 
      
    
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
Paragraph 1,  Guideline E:   FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraph 1.a:   For Applicant 
Paragraph 2, Guideline H:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 2.a-2.d:  Against Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national security to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Eric C. Price 
Administrative Judge 
9 