 
 
 
  
                                                              
                             
          
           
 
 
     
  
       
     
  
   
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
     
 
    
    
    
  
     
   
    
   
 
     
 
     
   
  
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-02174 
) 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Andrew Henderson Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
06/09/2025 
Decision 
LOKEY ANDERSON, Darlene D., Administrative Judge: 
Statement of Case  
On October 6, 2023, Applicant submitted a security clearance application ( e-
QIP). On January 3, 2025, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS) issued Applicant a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR), detailing security concerns under Guideline F, Financial 
Considerations. The action was taken under Executive Order 10865 (EO), Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DoD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive); and the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for 
Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a 
Sensitive Position (AG), effective within the DoD after June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR on January 16, 2025, and requested a hearing 
before an administrative judge.  The case was assigned to me on April 3, 2025.  The 
Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals issued a notice of hearing on April 7, 2025, 
 
 
 
    
   
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
    
 
 
  
  
  
 
   
 
      
  
     
 
 
   
   
 
 
      
 
 
 
    
  
  
 
 
and the hearing was convened as scheduled on May 7, 2025.  The Government offered 
six exhibits, referred to as Government Exhibits 1 through 6, which were admitted 
without objection. The Applicant offered two exhibits, referred to as Applicant’s Exhibits 
A and B, which were admitted without objection.  Applicant testified but called no 
witnesses.  The record remained open until May 12, 2025, so Applicant could submit 
additional supporting documentation.  He timely submitted two additional documents 
referred to as Applicant’s Post -Hearing Exhibits C and D, which were admitted into 
evidence without objection.  DOHA received the hearing transcript (Tr.) on May 19, 
2025. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 36 years old.  He is married, with two children, ages 16 and 18.  He 
attended high school, but he did not graduate.  He holds the position of Senior 
Maintenance Mechanic.  He is seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection with 
his employment. 
Guideline F - Financial Considerations  
The Government alleged that Applicant is ineligible for a clearance because he 
made financial decisions that indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which raise questions about his 
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information. 
The SOR identified nine delinquent debts totaling approximately $39,000. 
Applicant admitted each of the allegations set forth under the guideline.  Credit reports 
of the Applicant dated October 17, 2023; May 29, 2024; and March 28, 2025, confirm 
the indebtedness set forth in the SOR.  (Government Exhibits 4, 5 and 6.)  During his 
previous employment from 2019 to August 2023, Applicant was not always guaranteed 
a 40 -hour work week.  Most of the delinquent accounts in the SOR were incurred in 
2022, after he had improved his credit rating and purchased a house.  At that point, he 
applied for credit cards and personal loans and spent money he really could not afford 
on home improvements, furniture, and other things with no real plans on how to pay 
them off.  
In September 2023, Applicant was hired by his current employer. After receiving 
the SOR in January 2025, he contacted and hired a credit repair company, to assist him 
in resolving his debts.  The credit repair company is trying to negotiate and reach 
settlement agreements with each of the creditors listed in the SOR.  Applicant pays 
$420 monthly for their services.  He has already made three payments for March, April, 
and May 2025.  (Applicant’s Exhibit B.)  His intention is to continue making the monthly 
payments until his delinquent debts are completely resolved. 
2 
 
 
 
      
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
The following delinquent debts are of security concern: 
1.a.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount  of  $12,357 for an account  
that was charged off.   This was a personal loan he opened in 2022.  He used the money  
for home improvements and to pay  off other bills.   The debt  has increased to the  
amount  of $13,796 due to interest and fees.  (Tr. p. 35.)  The debt is now being handled  
by the credit repair company.  No settlement agreement has yet  been reached.  (Tr. pp.  
52-53.)  The debt remains owing.          
1.b.   Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of  $6,242 for an account  
that was charged off.   This was the cost of  concrete that was  poured for a walkway at  
Applicant’s house.  This account was  opened in 2022.  He has  made no payments on  
his own towards  the debt.  The debt is  now  being handled by the credit repair company.   
(Tr. pp. 40 -41.)  He is not sure if  a settlement has been reached.   The debt remains  
owing.        
1.c.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of $4,256 for an account  
that was placed for collection.   Applicant does not recall what he used the account  for.    
He has  made no payments on his own towards the debt.  The debt is now being  
handled by  the credit  repair company.  (Tr.  p. 43.)  He is not sure if a settlement has  
been reached.  The debt remains  owing.  
1.d.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of $1,452 for an account  
that was  placed for collection.  This is an account for a cover for the bed of  Applicant’s  
truck that was opened in August 2023.  He stated that  he made payments  toward the  
debt until February 2025.  The debt is now  being handled by  the credit repair company.   
(Tr. pp. 46- 48.)  A settlement in the amount of $726.25 has been reached.  The debt  
remains owing.    
1.e.   Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of  $783 for an account that  
was placed for collection.   This is a debt  owed to Home Depot.  The debt is  now  being  
handled by  the credit repair company.  (Tr.  p. 48.)   A settlement in  the amount  of  $266  
has  been reached.  (Applicant’s  Exhibit A, and Tr. p. 53.)  The debt  remains owing.  (Tr.  
p. 53.)  
1.f.   Applicant is indebted to a mortgage lender on an account that is past  due in  
the approximate amount of $7,507 with a total balance of $362,730.  This is Applicant’s  
home mortgage that was four  months past due in the amount  of $14,694.  (Government  
Exhibit 6.)   Applicant  stated that he has reached a settlement with the creditor.  His  
regular monthly payments are $2,400.  The creditor refinanced the mortgage loan,  and  
the deficiency payments were put on the back end of the loan.   (Tr. pp. 49- 52, and  
Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit D.)  The credit repair company  has been assisting with  
these negotiations.   
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
    
  
 
   
  
    
 
    
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
1.g.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of $5,204 for an account  
that was charged off.   This is for household furniture.  Applicant has made no payments  
on his  own towards the debt.  The debt is now being handled by the credit repair  
company.  He is  not sure what settlement has been reached.  The debt remains owing.   
(Tr. pp. 51 and 53.)  
1.h.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of $1,459 for an account  
that was placed for collection.  This was a personal loan that was opened in March  
2022.  Applicant has made no payments  toward the debt.  The debt is now being  
handled by  the credit  repair company.  No  settlement  has  been reached.  (Tr. p.  53.)   
The debt remains owing.  
1.i.   Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of  $544 for an account that  
was placed for collection.  This was a personal loan that was opened in July  2022.   
Applicant has  made no payments toward the  debt.  The det is now being handled by  the  
credit repair company.  No settlement has been reached.  (Tr.  p. 53.)  The debt remains  
owing.    
Not listed in the SOR is a delinquent credit card account, opened in 2021, with a 
limit of $1,500.  The account has been charged up to $1,700 that remains owing. 
Applicant stated that he probably used the account for gas and/or food.  Applicant has 
not made any payments to resolve the debt.  The debt remains owing.  (Government 
Exhibit 6.) 
In 2017, Applicant traveled on vacation to Mexico with his family. In December 
2022, he went on a cruise to Puerta Vallarta with his wife, children, and father -in-law. 
He financed $2,400, for the cost of the cruise.  (Tr. pp. 39-40.) 
Applicant’s current monthly net income is about $6,000.  After paying his regular 
monthly expenses, including his mortgage, he has about $2,500 left at the end of the 
month.  He has nothing in his savings account.  He has about $10,000 in his 401k.  He 
borrowed $2,000 from his 401k that he is currently in the process of paying back.  (Tr. 
pp. 56-57.) 
A letter of recommendation from a professional associate or coworker of the 
Applicant reflects on Applicant’s exceptional integrity, character, and unwavering 
dedication to the job.  Applicant delivers high quality results in his work product and 
contributes in meaningful ways to the success of the team and their mission.  Applicant 
plays an important role on their team.  A security clearance would enable him to 
continue his vital contributions without interruption.  Applicant is said to be proactively 
addressing his financial concerns and has shown a commitment to upholding his 
responsibilities.  (Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit C.) 
4 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
      
   
 
 
   
      
    
  
      
   
 
 
 
   
     
 
 
 
 
       
     
  
    
     
  
 
    
 
    
  
    
      
    
    
 
   
  
     
    
 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The 
administrative judge’s over arching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and 
commonsense decision.  The entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of 
variables known as the whole- person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I 
have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical and based on the 
evidence contained in the record. Likewise, I have avoided drawing inferences 
grounded on mere speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, 
or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel .” The 
applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable clearance 
decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The g overnment 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to 
potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
  
   
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
Analysis  
Guideline F -  Financial Considerations  
The security concern for Financial Considerations is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
Affluence that cannot be explained by known sources of income is also a 
security concern insofar as it may result from criminal activity, including 
espionage. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. Three are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) inability or unwillingness to satisfy debts;  
  
(c) a history of not  m eeting financial  obligations; and  
(e) consistent spending beyond one’s means or frivolous  or  irresponsible  
spending, which may  be indicated by excessive indebtedness, significant  
negative cash flow, a  history of late payments or of non- payment or  other  
negative financial indicators.  
Appl
icant has a history of excessive spending without concern for how or when 
he will pay it back.  His actions or inactions both demonstrate a history of not 
addressing his indebtedness and/or an inability to do so. The evidence is sufficient to 
raise the above disqualifying conditions. 
The following mitigating conditions under the Financial Considerations guideline 
are potentially applicable under AG ¶ 20. 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
und
er such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast  
doubt  on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good  
judgment;  
6 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
       
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
    
   
 
     
   
 
   
  
  
     
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
       
  
  
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely  
bey
ond the person’s control (e.g. loss  of employment, a business  
downturn, unexpected medical emergency, or a death, divorce, or  
separation), and the individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;   
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good faith effort  t o repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  and  
(e) the individual has  a r easonable basis to  dispute the legitimacy  of the 
past-due debt  which i s  the c ause of the problem  and provides  
documented proof to  substantiate the basis of the dispute or provides  
evidence of actions to resolve the issue.  
In 
2022, after purchasing his house, Applicant spent money for home 
improvements, furniture, and other things he wanted.  He incurred debt he could not 
afford to pay, which became delinquent.  Following these purchases, for several years 
he ignored the debts and did not do anything to resolve them.  His financial 
irresponsibility and inaction for so long casts doubt on his current reliability, 
trustworthiness, and/or good judgment.  Applicant now appears to want to resolve his 
debts, but he has lots of work to do to achieve this.  He recently hired a credit repair 
company and is in the process of trying to reach settlement agreements with his 
creditors to pay them back.  Presently, however, each of the delinquent debts listed in 
the SOR remain owing.  Applicant has done “too little too late” to establish that his 
financial problems are a thing of the past.  He needs more time to show the 
Government that he will ultimately resolve his financial delinquencies.  None of the 
mitigating conditions are applicable. 
There is insufficient evidence in the record to show that Applicant has 
demonstrated a pattern of responsibility, trustworthiness, and good judgement.  Only 
recently has he done anything to address his indebtedness, and overall, no real 
progress has been made to resolve even one of his delinquent debts.  He continues to 
owe about $39,000 in delinquent debt, which is a significant amount of money, to the 
creditors listed in the SOR.  There is insufficient evidence in the record to show that the 
Applicant has carried his burden of proof to establish mitigation of the government 
security concerns under Guideline F. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
7 
 
 
 
 
  
   
    
 
    
    
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
  
    
 
    
 
      
   
 
 
       
     
      
                                                
 
 
 
 
 
           
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5)  the  extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of  
rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation  
for the conduct; (8) the potential for  pressure, coercion, exploitation,  or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. In the event that 
Applicant follows through with his commitment to show financial responsibility, 
sometime in the future he may be found to be sufficiently reliable to properly protect and 
access classified information, but not at this time. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
relevant facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I conclude Applicant has not 
mitigated the Financial Considerations security concern. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by ¶ E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  Guideline F:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.
 a. through 1.i.:    Agai
nst Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue Applicant’s eligibility for 
a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Darlene Lokey Anderson 
Administrative Judge 
8 