 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                    
          
           
             
 
 
 
    
  
               
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
         
      
 
 
 
      
          
      
        
        
      
   
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
LACHMAN, Marissa L. ) ISCR Case No. 24-00600 
) 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: 
Tara Karoian, Esquire, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: 
Pro se 
February 11, 2025 
Decision 
GLENDON, John Bayard, Administrative Judge: 
Applicant has mitigated the security concerns raised under the personal conduct 
adjudicative guideline, but she failed to mitigate the concerns under the guideline for drug 
involvement and substance misuse. National security eligibility for access to classified 
information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a Questionnaire for National Security Positions on June 26, 
2023 (2023 Questionnaire). On June 26, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and 
Security Agency Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SO R) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline H (Drug 
Involvement and Substance Misuse) and Guideline E (Personal Conduct). The action was 
taken under Executive Order 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information Within Industry 
(February 20, 19 60), as amended; Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 5220.6, 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
        
 
 
       
            
      
             
           
         
          
 
 
       
       
           
         
            
  
 
 
             
     
        
          
         
           
       
  
 
       
          
          
        
       
          
        
  
 
 
 
  
Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as 
amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) effective within DoD after June 
8, 2017. 
Applicant responded to the SOR allegations in an undated document (Answer) and 
requested a hearing before an administrative judge from the Defense Office of Hearings 
and Appeals (DOHA). Department Counsel was prepared to proceed on August 20, 2024. 
The case was assigned to me on September 5, 2024. The case was initially scheduled to 
be heard via Microsoft Teams video teleconference on October 8, 2024. I cancelled that 
date on October 7, 2024, due to unforeseen circumstances, and a second Notice of 
Hearing was issued on October 16, 2024, scheduling the case to be heard on Microsoft 
Teams on October 24, 2024. 
I convened the hearing as rescheduled. Department Counsel offered four 
documents marked as Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 4, which I admitted without 
objection. Applicant testified but did not submit any documents. I left the record open until 
October 31, 2024, to give her the opportunity to supplement the record. She submitted 
nothing further, and the record closed on October 31, 2024. DOHA received the transcript 
of the hearing (Tr.) on October 31, 2024. (Tr. at 15-17, 22-23.) 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 34 years old. In January 2024, she began a job with a U.S. 
Government contractor as a manager. She had previously worked for another 
government contractor (Employer A) from July 2014 to December 2023. She received a 
bachelor’s degree in May 2013 and a post -graduate certificate in August 2017. In May 
2021, Applicant also earned a diploma following her completion of a leadership training 
program for executives at a local university. She has never married and has no children. 
She has maintained a Secret security clearance since August 2019. (Tr. at 11-13, 18-21, 
27, 39; GE 1 at 11-13; GE 3 at 2.) 
The Government alleged in the SOR that Applicant is ineligible for a security 
clearance because she used marijuana at various times, including a period when she 
worked in a sensitive position, i.e., a position in which she held a security clearance. The 
SOR also alleged that Applicant’s illegal drug use constituted disqualifying behavior under 
the Personal Conduct guideline and that she deliberately provided false information about 
her drug use in her 2023 Questionnaire and in her initial security clearance questionnaire, 
submitted on April 11, 2019 (2019 Questionnaire). I find that the facts developed at the 
hearing and detailed in the documentary record are as follows: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline H (Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse) 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          
  
 
       
           
           
   
          
         
       
      
 
   
           
           
      
        
       
       
            
       
          
        
      
       
  
 
           
        
        
         
           
      
       
       
        
           
  
 
         
        
             
SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b. Use of Marijuana (2016 to July 2023) and Use of Marijuana 
while in a Sensitive Position (2019 to July 2023). 
Applicant admits both allegations. After experimenting with marijuana once in 
college, she started using it again in 2016 when she was 26 years old. Recreational 
marijuana use was legal in her state at that time. Her first use of marijuana was in the 
form of a tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) “gummy” given to her by a friend to help her relax, 
cope with anxiety, and sleep better. Thereafter, she experimented with smoking 
marijuana as well as consuming gummies. (THC gummies and smoked marijuana are 
collectively referred to hereafter as Marijuana.) She used Marijuana socially as much as 
every other month and at times as little as once every five months. ( Answer at 1; Tr. at 
29-32, 35-37.) 
When the COVID-19 “lockdown” in 2020 forced Applicant to work from home and 
limit her contacts, she felt isolated and experienced severe stress and insomnia. Her use 
of Marijuana somewhat increased as she attempted to self -medicate her symptoms. In 
September and October 2020 her use increased when she experienced significant job -
related stress. Applicant discussed her problems with a therapist who offered to treat her 
with prescription medications. She declined taking pharmaceuticals because she did not 
want to develop a dependency. During the lockdown, Applicant followed a pattern of using 
Marijuana. After she experienced two nights of what she called “insomnia attacks,” she 
used Marijuana to help her sleep the third night. She repeated this pattern about f our 
times per month. After she could return to her workplace and until July 2023, Applicant 
substantially reduced her use of Marijuana. She used THC gummies a couple of times 
per year “to alleviate symptoms.” Her last use of Marijuana was in July 2023, whe n she 
was stressed by contract negotiations. (Tr. at 28-29, 34, 41-42, 47-48; GE 3 at 7.) 
Applicant submitted the 2019 Questionnaire in April of that year and was granted 
a Secret clearance in August 2019. As noted, her Marijuana use after receiving national 
security eligibility varied over the following four years depending on the severity of her 
stress and insomnia. She was asked to submit the 2023 Questionnaire to apply for a Top 
Secret clearance in June 2023. She was interviewed by two investigators from the Office 
of Personnel Management (OPM) in August 2023. According to the Report of 
Investigation (ROI) summarizing the interview, she disclosed her past use of Marijuana 
and that her most recent use was in July 2023. Applicant wanted to be truthful with the 
investigators and that desire prompted her to disclose her past use of Marijuana. A week 
after the Interview, she reported her drug use to her supervisor and security official. (Tr. 
at 14, 39-40, 44-45, 49; GE 3 at 7-8.) 
At that time, Applicant decided to cease using Marijuana. She began exercising 
and taking better care of her health to manage her stress and anxiety. She also acquired 
a dog to keep busy, and she limited her computer/phone screen time before sleeping to 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          
            
   
 
 
    
 
            
        
         
      
    
  
 
             
 
 
 
         
          
    
       
      
       
      
        
  
 
        
      
       
     
           
          
           
        
        
      
reduce her insomnia. She wrote in her Answer and testified at the hearing that she has 
no intention of using Marijuana in the future. (Answer at 4; Tr. at 14, 39-40, 44-45, 49; GE 
3 at 7-8; GE 4 at 5.) 
Paragraph 2, Guideline E (Personal Conduct)  
SOR ¶ 2.a. Cross-Allegation of Paragraph 1 Allegations. See discussion above. 
SOR ¶¶ 2.b through 2.d. Falsification of Responses in 2023 Questionnaire (¶¶ 2.b 
and 2.c) and in 2019 Questionnaire (¶ 2.d). In her Answer, Applicant admitted all of the 
Guideline E allegations, but provided explanations indicating that she did not intend to 
falsify the disputed responses in her questionnaires. I construe her Answer in its entirety 
as providing erroneous admissi ons of these three allegations where her intent was to 
deny any intent to falsify, as alleged. 
As to SOR ¶ 2.d. Applicant answered, “No,” to the following question in Section 23 
of her 2019 Questionnaire: 
In the  last seven (7) years, have  you  illegally  used  any drugs or controlled  
substances?  Use  of  a  drug  or controlled  substance  includes injecting,  
snorting,  inhaling, swallowing, experimenting  with  or  otherwise consuming  
any drug or controlled  substance. (Emphasis in the original.)  
Applicant’s negative response was inaccurate because she had started using 
Marijuana in 2016. She explained her response as a misunderstanding about the 
question, specifically whether it required the disclosure of her past infrequent use of 
Marijuana because its use was legal under the laws of her state. She acknowledged that 
she knew that Marijuana was illegal under federal law, although at the time, it did not 
occur to her that she was violating federal law by using Marijuana because of its legal 
status under state law. Applicant’s misunderstanding with the question was about the 
requirements of federal clearance law with respect to Marijuana use and disclosure in 
light of the status of Marijuana under her state’s laws. (Tr. at 34, 37-39, 57-58.)   
Applicant testified that she did not consider Marijuana covered by the question’s 
language: “the illegal use of drugs or controlled substances.” She explained that the 
question’s reference to “injecting, snorting” limited the question’s scope in her mind to 
“more serious, heavy drugs.” During cross-examination of Applicant, it was noted that an 
applicant has to click , “Yes,” in response to this question to be advised in a dropdown 
menu that Marijuana is, in fact, a drug or controlled substance covered by t he question 
and its use required disclosure. Applicant commented that the wording of the question 
should specifically address Marijuana to avoid confusion for applicants residing in states 
such as hers that have legalized the recreational use of Marijuana. She concluded that 
her “No” response “was an inadvertent wrong answer.” Applicant denied any intent to 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
   
 
           
        
           
        
        
         
         
         
       
        
 
 
           
         
         
     
        
          
          
            
       
  
    
             
 
 
 
 
         
        
         
       
    
withhold information from the government in her 2019 Questionnaire. (Tr. at 34, 37 -39, 
57-58.) 
As to SOR ¶ 2.b. Applicant answered, “No,” to the same question quoted above in 
Section 23 of the 2023 Questionnaire. Her negative response was again inaccurate as 
the seven -year timeframe of the question covered the entire period when she used 
Marijuana (2016 to 2023). In preparing her 2023 Ques tionnaire, she did not consider 
whether her use of Marijuana needed to be disclosed. At the hearing, Applicant noted 
that the responses from her 2019 Questionnaire prepopulated the 2023 Questionnaire 
when she prepared it. She did not change her prior negative response. In her mind, her 
circumstances had not changed since 2019 when she submitted her initial questionnaire. 
Applicant testified that her failure to reconsider her prior response to the question was an 
“oversight” and “a lapse of judgment.” She understands that she should have given further 
thought when responding since Marijuana is illegal under federal law. (Tr. at 42-44, 46.) 
Applicant testified at the hearing about her disclosure of her past use of Marijuana 
in the August 2023 OPM interview. She initially testified that she could not specifically 
recall if she disclosed her Marijuana history first, though she believed that the 
investigators may have introduced the general subject first as part of their review of her 
2023 Questionnaire. She believes that she was “upfront with it, ahead of them asking me 
specifically.” The ROI makes no reference to the investigators confronting Applicant about 
a discrepancy between her acknowledged Marijuana use and her negative answer in the 
questionnaire to the Section 26 question quoted above. Later in her testimony, s he 
recalled that any discussion about a discrepancy between her interview disclosure and 
her 2023 Questionnaire occurred after her disclosure. (Tr. at 44-45; GE 3 at 7-8.) 
As to SOR ¶ 2.c. Applicant also answered , “No,” to a second question in Section 
23 of her 2023 Questionnaire, which reads as follows: 
Have  you  EVER  illegally used  or otherwise been  illegally  involved  with  a  
drug  or controlled  substance  while  possessing  a  security clearance  other  
than previously listed?  (Emphasis in the  original.)  
Again,  Applicant’s negative  response  was inaccurate  since  she  was granted  eligibility for  
a  Secret clearance  in August 2019, therefore  “possessed” a  security clearance  and  used  
Marijuana  after that date  until July 2023. Her nondisclosure on  this question  was not 
separately reviewed at the  hearing or in her August 2023  OPM interview. (GE 3  at 7-8.)  
SOR ¶ 2.e. alleged that Applicant used Marijuana with Knowledge that Illegal Drug 
Use was Unacceptable to her Employer. In her Answer, Applicant admitted this allegation, 
which I construe was due to misunderstanding of the legal significance of an admission. 
She did not specifically address this allegation in her additional comments attached to the 
Answer. As discussed below, she denied at the hearing the substance of the allegation. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
        
           
        
            
        
      
           
    
            
 
 
        
     
    
      
       
       
       
        
            
 
 
 
       
       
      
 
 
       
      
          
      
          
          
            
            
          
          
  
Department Counsel asserted in her opening statement that, “The Government’s 
evidence will establish that Applicant was aware of her company’s strict adherence to 
Federal drug laws and a no -drug policy.” In fact, the Government provided no 
documentary evidence of Employer A’s drug policy. Applicant testified that she took and 
passed a drug test prior to commencing her job with Employer A in 2014. The employer’s 
requirement that she take a standard pre -employment drug test, however, is only proof 
of the Company’s pre-employment drug policy at that time. Applicant testified further that 
she was never requested to take another drug test during the ten years she worked at 
that company. When she changed jobs in December 2023/January 2024, Applicant’s 
current employer also required that she pass a pre-employment drug test, which she did. 
(Tr. at 9, 28-29, 40, 46-47.) 
As noted, Applicant reported her use of Marijuana to her supervisor and a company 
human resources representative after her August 15, 2023 background interview. 
Employer A’s security office submitted an incident report regarding Applicant’s disclosure, 
dated August 21, 2023. The incident report (GE 4) discusses reporting requirements and 
“refresher briefings” Applicant was required to view online between 2020 and 2023. These 
matters were mentioned in the incident report because they presumably addressed drug 
use and self-reporting requirements. At the hearing, Applicant could not recall any details 
about the briefings. The exhibit does not provide any specific information about Employer 
A’s drug policy, i.e., whether it is a safe-workplace policy that prohibits drug use at work, 
or a complete ban on any drug use by employees at any time, or something else. (Tr. at 
40; GE 4 at 5.) 
Credibility and Mitigation    
The thrust of Department Counsel’s closing argument was that Applicant’s hearing 
testimony lacked veracity due to discrepancies and contradictory statements. Applicant 
asserted that her testimony was completely truthful and questioned the claim that she 
provided inconsistent testimony. (Tr. at 51-58.) 
Applicant’s credibility was questioned based upon her admitted knowledge of the 
status of Marijuana under federal drug law and her testimony regarding her negative 
response to the questions in section 23 in her two questionnaires. The credibility issue 
was whether it was inconsistent for Applicant to admit such knowledge and to deny that 
she was aware of her obligation to disclose her use of Marijuana in response to specific 
questions in Section 23 of the questionnaires. She testified that she misunderstoo d the 
question on the 2019 Questionnaire due to the language of the question. As a non-lawyer, 
she was not aware that the federal drug ban on Marijuana extended to the federal 
clearance disclosure requirements regarding Marijuana. I note that Applicant had not held 
a clearance or responded to a national security questionnaire prior to her submission of 
the 2019 Questionnaire. (Tr. at 52.) 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
         
     
      
     
 
 
       
         
  
          
       
 
         
       
       
        
    
  
 
      
        
   
        
   
 
           
      
         
       
   
      
            
 
 
      
     
         
       
       
 
Another point raised related to Applicant’s testimony was that she was never 
interested in seeking a state medical marijuana prescription “because I had been 
employed by the Government or Government contracts [sic] my entire career.” On cross-
examination, Applicant responded affirmatively that she “knew it was illegal for Federal 
Government employees to use Marijuana.” Applicant, however, works for a federal 
contractor and has never been a federal employee. (Tr. at 33-34, 46, 52.) 
There is also evidence in the record that Applicant received online briefings 
regarding drug use and self -reporting requirements. The record is incomplete , however, 
as to the actual contents of those briefings and whether Applicant’s viewing of the online 
material conveyed to her what information was required to be disclosed on a national 
security questionnaire and the details of Employer A’s drug policy. (Tr. at 40; GE 4 at 5.) 
In her interview, Applicant voluntarily disclosed her past marijuana use. I note that 
she was not interviewed in connection with her 2019 application. After learning in the 
2023 OPM interview that she responded to the questionnaires incorrectly, she voluntarily 
reported her Marijuana use to her security official a week later and openly admitted her 
actions in her Answer and at the hearing. (Tr. at 50, 53; GE 4 at 5.) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for national security eligibility, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines (AG) list 
potentially disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in 
evaluating an applicant’s national security eligibility. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. The entire 
process is a conscientious scrutiny of applicable guidelines in the context of a number of 
variables known as the whole -person concept. The administrative judge must conside r 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires, “Any doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. I have not drawn inferences based on mere speculation or 
conjecture. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
   
 
     
          
  
 
    
Directive ¶  E3.1.14, requires the  Government to  present evidence  to  establish  
controverted  facts  alleged  in the  SOR. Under Directive ¶  E3.1.15, “The  applicant is   
responsible  for presenting  witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or  
mitigate  facts admitted  by the  applicant or proven  by Department Counsel, and  has the  
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining  a favorable clearance  decision.”  
A  person  who  seeks  access to  classified  information  enters into  a  fiduciary  
relationship  with  the  Government predicated  upon  trust and  confidence. This relationship  
transcends normal duty hours and  endures throughout off-duty  hours. The  Government  
reposes  a  high  degree  of trust and  confidence  in individuals to  whom  it grants national  
security eligibility.  Decisions include, by necessity, consideration  of the  possible  risk the  
applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail  to  protect or safeguard classifi ed 
information. Such  decisions entail  a  certain degree  of legally permissible  extrapolation  as  
to  potential, rather than  actual, risk of  compromise of classified  or sensitive information.  
Finally, as emphasized  in Section  7  of Executive  Order 10865, “Any determination  under  
this order adverse to  an  applicant  shall  be  a  determination  in  terms of the  national interest  
and  shall  in no  sense  be  a  determination  as to  the  loyalty of  the  applicant  concerned.”  
See also Executive  Order 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing  multiple prerequisites  for access  
to classified or sensitive information.)  
Analysis  
Paragraph 1  - Guideline H, Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
The security concerns relating to the guideline for drug involvement and substance 
misuse are set out in AG ¶ 24, which reads as follows: 
The  illegal use  of controlled  substances,  to  include  the  misuse  of  
prescription  and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances 
that  cause  physical or mental impairment  or are  used  in a  manner  
inconsistent with  their  intended  purpose  can  raise  questions about an  
individual’s reliability and  trustworthiness, both  because  such  behavior may  
lead  to  physical or psychological impairment and  because  it raises  
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules,  
and  regulations. Controlled  substance  means  any “controlled  substance” as  
defined  in 21  U.S.C. 802. Substance  misuse  is the  generic term  adopted  in  
this guideline  to  describe any of the behaviors listed above.  
AG ¶ 25 sets forth the following condition s that could raise security concerns and 
may be disqualifying in this case: 
(a) any substance misuse (see above definition); 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
 
 
        
         
         
   
 
         
        
          
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
       
     
  
  
 
          
       
        
       
            
         
(c)  illegal possession  of a  controlled  substance, including  cultivation,  
processing, manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession  of  
drug paraphernalia; and   
(f) any illegal drug use while granted access to classified information or 
holding a sensitive position. 
The record evidence establishes AG ¶¶ 25(a) and (c). With respect to AG ¶ 25(f), 
Applicant used marijuana after 2019 and until 2023. In 2019 she was granted eligibility 
for a security clearance and therefore held a “sensitive position.” (See ISCR Case No. 
22-01661 at 4 (App. Bd. Sep. 21, 2023).) Accordingly, AG ¶ 25(f) is also established. 
The burden, therefore, shifts to Applicant. AG ¶ 26 provides conditions that could 
mitigate security concerns raised under this guideline. I have considered all the mitigating 
conditions under AG ¶ 26 and conclude that the following two conditions have possible 
application to the facts of this case: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or happened  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur or does  not cast  doubt  
on  the  individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  judgment;  and  
(b) the  individual acknowledges his or her drug  involvement and  substance  
misuse,  provides evidence  of  actions taken  to  overcome the  problem, and  
has established  a pattern of abstinence, including, but not limited  to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts; 
(2) changing  or avoiding  the  environment where drugs were  
used; and  
(3) providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all 
drug involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that 
any future involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation of 
national security eligibility. 
In my analysis, I have taken administrative notice of the Security Executive Agent 
(SecEA) “Clarifying Guidance Concerning Marijuana for Individuals Eligible to Access 
Classified Information or Eligible to Hold a Sensitive Position,” dated December 21, 2021. 
(Guidance.) In her Guidance, the SecEA noted the increased number of states that have 
legalized or decriminalized the use of marijuana and issued the Guidance to “provide 
clarifying guidance.” She reaffirmed the previous SecEA’s 2014 memorandum regarding 
the importance of compliance with federal law on the illegality of the use of marijuana by 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
        
         
    
      
           
         
            
       
      
       
            
 
      
      
       
          
           
      
         
    
          
         
      
    
    
 
 
           
   
 
holders  of  security clearances.  She  provided  further  clarification  of federal marijuana
policy writing  that this policy remains relevant  to  security clearance  adjudications  “but [is]
not determinative.” The  SecEA  noted  that the  adjudicative guidelines prov ided  various
opportunities  for a  clearance  applicant to  mitigate  security  concerns  raised  by his  or her
past use  of marijuana.  
 
  
 
 
In applying AG ¶ 26(a) to the facts of this case, I conclude that Applicant’s illegal 
drug use was not so long ago, was not so infrequent, and did not occur under such 
circumstances that it is unlikely to recur. Moreover, this recent illegal drug use while 
holding a sensitive position casts doubt on her current reliabili ty, trustworthiness, and 
judgment. Her last use of an illegal drug while holding a sensitive position occurred one 
month after she submitted the 2023 Questionnaire seeking to upgrade her sec urity 
clearance from Secret to Top Secret and only about 15 months before the close of the 
record. She did not give careful consideration to her responses to the Section 23 
questions. Given her awareness of federal law with respect to Marijuana, she should have 
made inquiries of her security officials before using Marijuana. Overall, Applicant failed to 
establish mitigation under AG ¶ 26(a).  
Applicant has also not provided sufficient evidence under AG ¶ 26(b) to fully 
mitigate the security concerns raised by her illegal drug use. She has acknowledged her 
drug involvement and has credibly provided testimony about the steps she has taken to 
improve her health and deal with stress and insomnia. She has also stated that she 
intends to abstain from using Marijuana in the future. Howev er, she has not provided 
sufficient evidence of other actions she has taken to change her past pattern of using 
Marijuana to cope with stress. For example, she has not provided evidence of dissociating 
from drug -using contacts or a formal written statement of intent under AG ¶ 26(b)(3) , 
though I note that she wrote in her Answer that she does not intend to use marijuana 
again. Her brief period of abstention is simply too short to support a conclusion that she 
will not use Marijuana again, despite her best intentions at this time, if she suffers from 
stress and insomnia attacks in the future. Under the circumstances of th is case, 
Applicant’s evidence is inadequate to establish mitigation under AG ¶ 26(b). 
Paragraph 2  –  Guideline E, Personal Contact  
The security concerns relating to the guideline for personal conduct are set out in 
AG ¶ 15, which states: 
Conduct involving  questionable judgment, lack of candor,  dishonesty,  or  
unwillingness to  comply with  rules and  regulations can  raise  questions  
about an  individual's  reliability, trustworthiness and  ability to  protect  
classified  or sensitive  information.  Of  special interest is any  failure to  
cooperate  or provide  truthful and  candid answers during  national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes.  
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
   
 
 
      
   
     
     
     
      
 
  
          
           
 
 
    
         
       
       
       
 
 
          
         
            
        
         
         
        
   
     
 
 
AG ¶ 16 describes the following two conditions that may raise security concerns 
and potentially be disqualifying in this case. 
(a) deliberate  omissi on, concealment,  or falsification  of relevant facts from  
any personnel  security questionnaire, personal history statement,  or similar  
form  used  to  conduct investigations,  determine  employment qualifications,  
award  benefits or status, determine  national security eligibility or 
trustworthiness, or award  fiduciary responsibilities; and  
(c) credible adverse information in several adjudicative issue areas that is 
not sufficient for an adverse determination under any other single guideline, 
but which, when considered as a whole, supports a whole -person 
assessment of questionable judgment, untrustworthiness, unreliability, lack 
of candor, unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations, or other 
characteristics indicating that the individual may not properly safeguard 
classified or sensitive information. 
Due to the two different types of personal conduct allegations set forth in the SOR under 
Guideline E, I will review the application of the above disqualifying conditions with respect 
to subparagraphs 2.a and 2.e separately from the falsification allegatio ns set forth in 
subparagraphs 2.b through 2.d. 
SOR ¶ 2.a under Guideline E cross-alleges Applicant’s past use of Marijuana and 
her use while holding a sensitive position as a separate security concern under this 
guideline. As noted above, the record evidence clearly established the cross -referenced 
allegations of paragraph 1 of the SOR and is sufficient for an adverse determination under 
Guideline H. Accordingly, the language of AG ¶ 16(c) precludes application of that 
potentially disqualifying condition. SOR ¶ 2.a is resolved in favor of Applicant. 
SOR ¶ 2.e alleges that Applicant engaged in misconduct with knowledge that “it 
was not acceptable to use the drug while working for your employer.” I construe this as 
referring to her employer at the time she submitted the June 2023 Questionnaire and was 
interviewed in August 2023, i.e., Employer A. The allegation does not refer to a violation 
of a policy of the employer. As noted, the record does not include Employer A’s drug 
policy. The record does not support by substantial evidence a finding as to whet her any 
policy discussed at the hearing, in the ROI, or the Incident Report is a “safe-workplace” 
policy, which bans the use of drugs, or being under the influence of drugs, while at work, 
or a total ban on the employees’ use of drugs at any time, or something else. 
Moreover, the  primary  evidence  supporting  this allegation  is  the  following  vague  
statement appearing  in  the  ROI,  “Subject is aware  marijuana  is still federally illegal and   
that  it is not acceptable  to  be  using  marijuana  while working  at  [Employer A.] (Emphasis  
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
         
      
       
         
        
      
      
         
   
 
          
       
          
 
  
 
      
           
      
        
         
           
   
           
      
         
 
 
        
        
added.) The  possibility  that Applicant was referring  in the  Interview to  a  safe-workplace  
policy at Employer A  also appears in a  partially incomplete  sentence  appearing  later in  
the  ROI,  which reads, “Subject  if she  did not  consume  marijuana  during  work hours at  
[Employer A.]” The  language preceding  and following  the  quoted partial sentence  do not  
provide  any  context  for the  quoted  wording, but the  reference  to  “work hours”  suggests  
that she  may have  referred  to  a  safe-workplace  policy. If  the  terms of employment  
referenced in this allegation is to a safe-workplace  policy that prohibits marijuana use, or  
being  under the  influence  of  marijuana,  while at work , then  Applicant’s conduct  did  not  
violate  such  terms. In  the  absence  of a clarification  of Employer A’s terms of acceptable  
conduct, SOR ¶  2.e is not established  and is resolved in favor of Applicant.  
The three SOR falsification allegations (SOR ¶¶ 2.b, 2.c, and 2.d) require that the 
Government produce substantial evidence of Applicant’s intent to provide false 
information in her questionnaires. I conclude that the Government had not met its burden 
to prove that Applicant intentionally provided false information in her questionnaires in the 
face of her credible denials. Based upon my observation of Applicant’s demeanor and a 
careful review of the transcript, I found Applicant’s testimony and explanations for her 
omissions to be credible and without any clear inconsistencies with other record evidence. 
Accordingly, the potentially disqualifying condition set forth in AG ¶ 16(a) has not been 
established as to any of the three SOR falsification allegations. 
Even if it was determined that Applicant had deliberately provided false information 
in her responses to questions in Section 23 of her 2019 and 2023 questionnaires, as 
alleged in the SOR, I conclude that the mitigation condition set forth in AG ¶ 17(a) has full 
application. That condition reads: 
(a) the  individual made  prompt,  good-faith  efforts to  correct the  omission,  
concealment,  or falsification  before being confronted with the facts.  
As discussed above in my findings, Applicant voluntarily disclosed her past 
Marijuana use to the OPM investigators in the August 2023 interview. In the context of 
the assumption at the opening of this alternative analysis, I conclude that her disclosure 
was a prompt, good -faith effort to correct her omissions. I also conclude that the record 
evidence supports the conclusion that Applicant disclosed her drug use in the interview 
before an interviewer confronted her with inf ormation that she had used Marijuan a. 
Supporting this conclusion is the fact that the record evidence provides no information to 
suggest that the investigators had reason to be aware of Applicant’s drug use and had 
any basis to confront her with such a claim. Furthermore, her recollection of the interview 
supports the conclusion that Applicant initiated the discussion about her drug use with 
her disclosure. 
In addition, Applicant voluntarily took the positive step of disclosing to her 
supervisor and security official her past Marijuana use and her use while holding a 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
    
 
 
 
 
        
   
      
   
 
         
      
      
        
      
     
   
  
 
       
         
      
 
         
       
      
      
         
  
          
            
       
    
      
     
       
 
 
 
        
    
sensitive position. By taking this step, she has eliminated her vulnerability to exploitation, 
manipulation, or duress. AG ¶ 17(e) (the individual has taken positive steps to reduce or 
eliminate vulnerability to exploitation, manipulation, or duress) also applies. 
Whole-Person Concept 
Under the whole -person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for national security eligibility by considering the totality of the 
applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should 
consider the nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant national security eligibility 
for a security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the above whole-person factors and the potentially disqualifying and 
mitigating conditions in light of all pertinent facts and circumstances surrounding this 
case. I credit Applicant’s honesty in self-reporting her past drug use knowing that it could 
negatively affect her clearance eligibility and therefore conclude that the personal conduct 
falsification allegations are not established. However, Applicant’s drug use from 2019 to 
2023 was a serious violation of federal security clearance rules and regulations. Her use 
of an illegal drug over a four -year period while holding a sensitive position seriously 
undercuts the value of her mitigating evidence, even though I credit her explanation that 
she was unaware that she was violating applicable security clearance requirements. She 
could have easily sought clarity from her employer’s security officials about those 
requirements when she prepared her responses to the 2019 Questionnaire. Applicant has 
not, at this time, mitigated drug involvement secur ity concerns raised by her behavior . 
Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts as to Applicant’s 
present suitability for national security eligibility and a security clearance. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by ¶ E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
      
 
     
 
     
 
 
            
     
  
                                                  
 
 
 
 
 
Paragraph  1, Guideline H:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 1.a and 1.b: Against Applicant 
Paragraph  2, Guideline E:  FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 2.a through 2.e:  For Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant national security eligibility. 
Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
JOHN BAYARD GLENDON 
Administrative Judge 
14 