 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                               
      
               
          
             
 
    
  
                                                                   
   
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
               
                                                             
 
 
  
 
   
    
     
  
 
 
   
   
   
      
  
 
    
     
   
    
  
 
      
__________ 
__________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-01279 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Mark D. Lawton, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
05/16/2025 
Decision 
WESLEY, ROGER C. Administrative Judge 
Based upon a review of the case file, pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, 
Applicant did not mitigate drug involvement and substance abuse and personal conduct 
concerns. Eligibility for access to classified information or to hold a sensitive position is 
denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On July 30, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) 
Consolidated Adjudications Services (CAS) issued a statement of reasons (SOR) to 
Applicant detailing reasons why under the drug involvement and substance abuse and 
personal conduct guidelines the DCSA CAS could not make the preliminary affirmative 
determination of eligibility for granting a security clearance, and recommended referral 
to an administrative judge to determine whether a security clearance should be granted, 
continued, denied, or revoked. The action was taken under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 
10865, Safeguarding Cl assified I nformation within Industry (February 20, 1960); 
Department of Defense ( DoD) Directive 5220.6 Defense Industrial Personnel Security 
Clearance Review Program , (January 2, 1992) ( Directive); and Security Executive 
Agent Directive 4, establishing in Appendix A the National Security Adjudicative 
Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Inform ation or Eligibility to 
Hold a Sensitive Position (AGs), effective June 8, 2017. 
1 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
    
  
  
  
     
    
 
  
 
   
    
     
  
   
 
  
 
     
    
     
  
 
 
          
     
     
   
      
   
  
  
    
  
 
 
     
  
  
    
 
   
     
Applicant responded to the SOR on August 28, 2024, and elected to have her 
case decided on the written record in lieu of a hearing. This case was assigned to me 
on May 2, 2025. Applicant received the File of Relevant Material (FORM) on January 
28, 2025, and was instructed to file any objections to the FORM or supply additional 
information for consideration within 30 days of receipt. Applicant did not respond to the 
Government’s FORM and did not object to the Government’s materials included in the 
FORM. 
Summary  of Pleadings  
Under Guideline H, Applicant allegedly (a) used marijuana with varying frequency 
from about January 2013 to about August 2023 and (b) used Mushrooms with varying 
frequency from about August 2005 to about June 2018. She provided no attachments. 
Under Guideline E, Applicant allegedly (a) was arrested in January 2008 and 
charged with Unauthorized Use of an Access Card as Theft and Identity Theft; (b) 
falsified facts during an October 25, 2023 personal subject interview (PSI) with an 
authorized investigator for the U.S. DoD when he asked her about her January 2008 
arrest; and (c)  falsified material facts on an electronic questionnaires for investigations 
processing (e-QIP) using a questionnaire for non-sensitive information format (Standard 
SF-85) when she answered “No” to questions inquiring about any past use of illegal 
drugs, and thereby failing to disclose her past use o f illegal drugs covered by Guideline 
H. 
In Applicant’s SOR response, she admitted most of the allegations covered by 
Guidelines H and E, denying only her alleged falsification of the e-QIP she completed in 
June 2018 (claiming she did her best to identify her past years of illegal marijuana and 
hallucinogenic mushroom use), without identifying her reasons for denying any past use 
of illegal drugs in the e- QIP she executed. For explanations relative to the allegations 
covered by Guidelines H and E of the SOR that she admitted, she claimed no conviction 
of charges as she continues to maintain her innocence with regard to her 2009 
unauthorized use of an access card arrest and charges. She further claimed that 
because she cannot afford a lawyer to fight the charges, she cannot prove her 
innocence at this time. She also claimed that she is currently working on a master’s 
degree and has established a successful profession and life for herself. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 37-year-old civilian employee of a defense contractor who seeks a 
security clearance. Allegations covered in the SOR and admitted by Applicant are 
incorporated and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow. 
Background  
Applicant never entered into a civil marriage but has cohabited with another since 
January 2020. (Item 2) She has no children from this relationship. She earned a 
2 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
  
     
 
     
      
       
 
 
    
    
  
  
   
   
   
   
 
     
    
    
    
 
    
    
    
    
 
 
    
    
  
    
 
   
 
     
   
  
   
      
   
 
    
  
   
bachelor’s degree in May 2010 and attended additional college classes in 2014 without 
earning a degree or diploma. Applicant did not report any military service. (Items 2-4) 
Since June 2018, Applicant has worked for her current defense contractor as a 
senior contract negotiator. (Item 2) Previously, she worked for a local government as a 
contracts manager. She has never held a security clearance. (Items 2 and 4) 
illegal drug involvement   
Applicant was introduced to marijuana in 2013. Between January 2013 and 
August 2023, she used marijuana with varying frequency. (GEs 2 and 4) She 
acknowledged her awareness of the illegality of marijuana possession as far back as 
2015 (regardless of state laws legalizing the use of marijuana) that the possession and 
sale of marijuana remained illegal under the Federal Controlled Substances Act but 
continued to use the substance, nonetheless, until August 2023. (Items 2 and 4) She 
never purchased marijuana herself, however, and always relied on friends for providing 
her drugs. 
Besides her marijuana use, Applicant used hallucinogenic mushrooms quarterly 
with her boyfriend from August 2005 to June 2018. (Items 2 and 4) She purchased her 
mushrooms for about $30. 00 and consumed them by eating them at musical festivals 
and in other social situations. (Item 4) Applicant last used mushrooms in June 2018. 
Applicant assured in her August 2023 e- QIP (Item 3) that she had no intention of 
using marijuana, hallucinogenic mushrooms, or any other illegal drugs in the 
foreseeable future out of concern for her health. Her assurances , while not expressly 
challenged  by the Government in the FORM, are not corroborated. 
Unauthorized Use of  Access Card  
According to an arresting sheriff’s report Item 6) , Applicant was arrested and 
charged in January 2009 with one count of unauthorized use of a customer’s access 
card, theft and identity theft. Details of her arrest and charge are covered in the arrest 
report of the charging officer. (Items 4 and 6) 
Summarized, at the time of her arrest, Applicant was a college student employed 
by a local electronics store. In November 2008, a customer visited the store to purchase 
a television. (Items 4 and 6) Because the customer’s store credit card had expired for 
lack of use for over a year, he asked Applicant to assist him with completing an 
application for a new credit card. (Item 6) According to the sheriff’s report, when the 
customer received his i nitial credit card state ment in December 2008 , he noted four 
purchases totaling $1,671 on the account statement that he did not make. An 
investigation opened following the customer’s reporting of the incident. (Item 6) 
Although, Applicant denied any wrongdoing associated with any of the reported 
incidents uncovered in the investigation of the credit card incident , the investigation 
produced evidence to corroborate the charges The assigned incident code for the 
3 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
    
     
   
   
   
  
 
 
      
  
     
      
   
     
    
 
     
   
   
   
    
    
    
 
   
 
       
    
    
     
  
  
    
  
   
                                                                                                                       
                      
 
 
     
   
  
 
   
     
       
charged offense was forgery. (Item 6) Applicant denied any conviction of the charges 
and claimed the charges were expunged. (Item 4) While the sheriff’s investigation 
produced credible evidence corroborating the charges, no disposition of the charges is 
posted in the record. (Items 5- 6) Absent any probative evidence in the record of a 
disposition of the charge, there can be no inferences of a conviction or other adverse 
ruling. 
Falsification  of background forms  
Asked to complete a questionnaire for non-sensitive positions (SF-85) in June 
2018, Applicant willfully and knowingly failed to disclose h er past use of marijuana and 
hallucinogenic mushrooms. (Items 3) She admitted her awareness as early as 2015 that 
the use, possession, and purchase of marijuana was barred by federal law (regardless 
of state laws legalizing marijuana use). Applicant denied using illegal drugs within the 
previous year. (Item 3) In deliberately denying her prior use of marijuana, Applicant 
falsified her e-QIP of June 2018. 
Applicant completed another security clearance questionnaire (an e- QIP) in 
October 2023. (Item 2) In this e- QIP, she acknowledged her past drug use of marijuana 
and hallucinogenic mushrooms while denying any prior arrests and charges within the 
previous seven years . In a follo w-up personal subject interview (PSI) with an 
investigator from the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) in October 2023, she was 
asked about her 2009 arrest for Unauthorize Use of an A ccess Card, as Theft and 
Identify Theft. (Item 4) In this version of the event, she told the OPM investigator that a 
friend or acquaintance wrote down his credit card number on a piece of paper that she 
used to make purchases for the customer. (Item 4) 
Elaborating on Applicant’s recitals of her 2008 store incident in her PSI, she told 
the investigator that the credit card information provided her came from the customer’s 
father’s credit card. (Item 4) By all reasonable comparisons with the information recited 
in the arrest report, the cited exculpatory information that Applicant provided the OPM 
investigator in her PSI was false and misleading and cannot be reconciled with the 
detailed transactional information contained in the local sheriff’s case report. (Item 6) 
Clearly s ummarized in the sheriff’s incident report are the corroborated accounts of 
Applicant’s multiple use of her customer’s credit card information to make multiple 
unauthorized transactions on the customer’s credit card account. (Item 6) 
Policies  
By virtue of the jurisprudential principles recognized by the U.S. Supreme Court 
in Department of the Navy v. Egan , 484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988), “no one has a ‘right’ to a 
security clearance.” As Commander in Chief, “the President has the authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information. ” Id. at 527. 
Eligibility for access to classified information may only be granted “upon a finding that it 
is clearly consistent with the national interest to do so. ” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
4 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
  
  
  
    
 
   
 
  
  
  
  
 
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
     
 
 
   
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
            
  
  
   
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the a pplicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial , and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The AGs list guidelines to be considered by judges in the decision- making 
process covering DOHA cases. These guidelines take into account factors that could 
create a potential conflict of interest for the individual applicant, as well as 
considerations that could affect the individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified information. These guidelines include conditions that could raise a 
security concern and may be disqualifying (disqualifying conditions), if any, and all of 
the conditions that could mitigate security concerns . These guidelines must be 
considered before deciding whether or not a security clearance should be granted, 
continued, or denied. Although, the guidelines do not require judges to place exclusive 
reliance on the enumerated disqualifying and mitigating conditions in the guidelines in 
arriving at a decision. 
In addition to the relevant AGs, judges must take into account the pertinent 
considerations for assessing extenuation and mitigation set forth in ¶ 2(a) of the AGs, 
which are intended to assist the judges in reaching a fair and impartial, commonsense 
decision based on a careful consideration of the pertinent guidelines within the context 
of the whole person. The adjudicative process is designed to examine a sufficient period 
of an applicant’s life to enable predictive judgments to be made about whether the 
applicant is an acceptable security risk. 
When evaluating an applicant’s conduct, the relevant guidelines are considered 
together with the following AG ¶ 2(d) factors: (1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of 
the conduct; (2) the circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the individual’s age and 
maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to which participation is voluntary; (6) 
the presence or absence of rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) 
the motivation of the conduct; (8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or 
duress; and (9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Viewing the issues raised and evidence as a whole, the following individual 
guidelines are pertinent: 
Drug Involvement  
The Concern: The illegal use of controlled substances, to include 
the misuse of prescription drugs, and the use of other substances that 
cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
5 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
    
  
    
   
    
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
  
   
       
      
 
     
   
     
        
   
    
   
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because  such behavior 
may lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, 
rules, and regulations. Controlled substance means any “controlled 
substance” as defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic 
term adopted in this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed 
above. 
Personal Conduct  
The Concern: Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of 
candor, dishonesty, or unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations 
can raise questions about an individual’s reliability, and trustworthiness, 
and ability to protect classified or sensitive information. Of special 
interest is any failure to cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers 
during national security investigative or adjudicative processes  .  .  . AG 
¶ 15. 
Burdens of Proof  
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation 
about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Clearance decisions must be “in terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be 
a determination as to the loyalty of the a pplicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 § 7. 
See also Exec. Or. 12968 (Aug. 2, 1995), § 3.1. 
Initially, the  G overnment must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in  
the per sonal  or professional history of  the a pplicant that may disqualify the  a pplicant  
from being eligible for  access  to classified information. The  Government has  the burden  
of establishing controverted facts  alleged in the SOR.  See  Egan, 484 U.S.  at 531.   
“Substantial evidence”  is  “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance. ”   See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit  Auth.,  36 F.3d 375, 380 (4
th  Cir. 1994). The AGs  
presume a nexus or  rational connection between proven conduct under any of the  
criteria listed t herein and an  applicant’s security suitability.  See  ISCR Case No.  95-0611 
at 2 (App. Bd. May 2, 1996).   
O
nce the Government establishes a disqualifying condition by substantial 
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it 
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue his [or her] security 
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01 -20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). The burden of 
disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the G overnment. See ISCR Case No. 
6 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
  
         
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
     
   
  
  
 
   
    
 
    
      
     
   
 
 
  
    
  
     
 
  
     
  
  
   
 
   
  
 
02-31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, 
if they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; see AG ¶ 2(b). 
Analysis  
Security concerns are raised over Applicant’s possession and use of illegal drugs 
(marijuana and mushrooms) over a considerable number of years. Additionally, security 
concerns are raised over applicant’s misuse of a customer’s credit card access Further, 
security concerns are raised over Applicant’s falsification of information he provided in a 
2023 PSI and in an earlier e-QIP she completed in 2018. 
Drug and Substance  Abuse  Concerns  
Applicant’s admissions to using and purchasing marijuana and hallucinogenic 
mushrooms over a period of many years (2013-2023 for marijuana and 2005- 2018 for 
mushrooms) raise security concerns over judgment and risks of recurrence. On the 
strength of the evidence presented, t wo disqualifying conditions (DCs) of the AGs for 
drug involvement apply to Applicant’s situation: DC ¶¶ 25(a), ”any substance misuse”; 
and 25(c), “illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation, 
processing, manufacture, purchase, sale, or distribution; or possession of drug 
paraphernalia,“ apply to Applicant’s situation. 
To Applicant’s credit, she has ceased using marijuana and mushrooms and is 
committed to abandoning all involvement with the drug in the future. She is credited with 
remaining abstinent from marijuana use since August 2023 and from the use of 
mushrooms since 2018 and exhibits no visible signs or indications of succumbing to any 
risks or pressures she might encounter to return to illegal drug use in the foreseeable 
future. Applicant’s assurances of sustained abstinence from illegal drugs are 
encouraging. However, her assurances are not accompanied by any formal written 
intent to abstain from future use of marijuana and other illegal drugs with the 
understanding of the risk of a loss of a security clearance should she resume her use of 
marijuana or other illegal drugs in the future. 
Considering all of the circumstances surrounding Applicant’s involvement with 
marijuana and mushrooms and her recent initiatives to abstain from marijuana and 
other illegal drug use warrant limited application of two potentially available mitigating 
conditions (MCs) of the drug involvement and substance misuse guideline.  Partially 
applicable MCs are MC ¶¶ 26(a), “the behavior happened so long ago, was so 
infrequent, or happened under such unusual circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or 
does not cast doubt on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good 
judgment”; and 26(b), which reads as follows 
the individual acknowledges his  or her drug involvement and substance  
misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and  
has established a pattern of abstinence, including, but  not limited to  .  .  .    
(2) changing or avoiding the environment  where drugs were used  and 
providing a signed statement  of intent to abstain from  all drug involvement  
7 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
     
   
   
    
  
  
 
  
    
   
   
  
  
      
  
    
 
 
 
 
   
    
  
  
     
  
   
  
  
     
 
  
 
  
  
     
 
 
 
     
  
     
 
 
and substance misuse,  acknowledging that any future involvement or  
misuse is  grounds for revocation of national eligibility:  .  .  .   
Still, Applicant’s lengthy personal history of marijuana and mushroom use 
undercut her commitments to avert all risks of recurrence of marijuana involvement in 
the foreseeable future. Without more time and corroborating evidence of sustained 
abstinence from the use of illegal drugs over a more prolonged period of time and 
disassociation from those who continue to use them , mitigating conditions available to 
her are quite limited in scope. 
While this is not a close case, even close cases must be resolved in the favor of 
the national security where doubt exists. See Dept. of Navy v. Egan , supra. Quite apart 
from any judgment reservations the Government may have for the clearance holder 
employed by a defense contractor, the Government has the right to expect the keeping 
of promises and commitments from the trust relationship it has with the clearance 
holder. See Snepp v. United States , 444 U.S. 507, 511 n.6 (1980). In Applicant’s case, 
it is still too soon to make safe predictions that she will be able to fulfill her promised 
commitments to avoid illegal drugs in the future. Without a face -to-face hearing to 
assess her credibility, her abstinence assurances become much more difficult to reliably 
evaluate. 
Personal Conduct Concerns  
Of additional security concern is Applicant’s 2009 arrest and charge of 
Unauthorized Use of Access Card as Theft and Identity Theft. While the charge never 
resulted in a conviction, the underlying facts are supported by strong probative evidence 
reflecting a lack of candor and poorly exercised judgment by Applicant. Applicable to the 
facts of Applicant’s case is DC ¶ 16(c), “credible adverse information in several 
adjudicative issue areas that is not sufficient for an adverse determination under any 
other single guideline, but which, when considered as a whole, supports a whole-person 
assessment of questionable judgment, untrustworthiness, unreliability, lack of candor, 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations, or other characteristics indicating 
that the individual may not properly safeguard classified or sensitive information.” 
In completing her e- QIP of June 2018, Applicant willfully and knowingly failed to 
disclose her past illegal use of marijuana and mushrooms. In a follow -up PSI of October 
2023, she provided false and misleading information about the circumstances 
surrounding her misuse of a customer’s credit card access information, for which she 
was subsequently and charged with unauthorized use of a customer’s access card. In 
both instances she committed candor and judgment lapses that create personal conduct 
security concerns. 
Of further security concern are Applicant’s multiple omissions and misstatements 
made in the course of security clearance investigations of her suitability to  hold a 
security clearance or sensitive position. Past. Applicable DCs are ¶¶ 16(a), “deliberate 
omission, concealment, or falsification of relevant facts from any personnel security 
questionnaire, personal history statement, or similar form used to conduct 
8 
 
investi
gations,  determine em ployment qualifications, award benefits or status,  
determine national  security eligibility or trustworthiness,  or award fiduciary  
responsibilities,” and 16(b), “deliberately providing false or misleading information; or  
concealing or omitting information, concerning relevant facts to an employer,  
investigator, security official, competent  medical or mental health professional involved  
in making a recommendation relevant to a national security eligibility determination, or  
other official  government  representative,” apply.   
 Applicant’s  arrest  and charge i ncident and h er  furnishing of  false and misleading  
information reflect multiple instances of candor and judgment lapses that raise serious  
security concerns  about her overall judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness.  Without  
more definitive mitigating formation from her about her  2009 arrest, and ensuing   
omissions and misleading statements, none of the potentially  available mitigating  
conditions  are available to her.  See ISCR Case No. 02 -07555 at 2-3 (App. Bd. July 19,  
2004);  ISCR Case No.  01-07735 at  2 (App. Bd.  June 25, 2002)  
Whole-perso
n assessment  
 From a whol
e-person perspective, Applicant has failed to establish enough  
independent probative evidence of her  overall trustworthiness, reliability, and good  
judgment required of  her.  Whole-person assessment  of Applicant’s  clearance eligibility  
requires consideration of whether  her  multiple  instances of  us ing illegal drugs over a  
prolonged period of time and material omissions of security -significant facts in her past  
e-QIP  and PSI are compatible with  minimum  standards  for  holding a security clearance.   
 While Applicant is entitled to credit for her  work in the defense industry,  her  
efforts are not  enough at  this time to overcome  drug recurrence risks associated with  
her  considerable  history o f  illegal possession and use of illegal drugs and material  
omissions of her past use of illegal drugs  and arrest circumstances.  So, while her  
credible efforts to  abstain from illegal drugs are encouraging,  o verall trustworthiness,  
reliability, and good judgment  have not been established.  
I have car
efully applied the law, as set forth in Department of  Navy  v. Egan,  484 
U.S. 518 (1988) , Exec. Or. 10865, the  Directive, and the AGs , to the facts  and  
circumstances in the context  of  the whole person. I  conclude  that illegal drug involvement  
and personal conduct  concerns  are not  mitigated.  Eligibility for  access to classified  
information  is  denied.    
Formal Findings  
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on  the allegations set forth in the SOR,  
as required by  Section E3.1.25 of  Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are:           
                                                                                                                                              
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
               GUIDELINE H (DRUG INVOLVEMENT):         
                  
                       Subparagraphs  1.a-1.b:                          
 
 AG
AINST  APPLICANT  
    Agai
nst
 Applicant          
 9 
 
                                                                                                                                              
          GUIDELINE E: (PERSONAL CONDUCT):        
 
                       Subp
aragraphs 2.a-2.c:                            
     Agai
nst Applicant  
                   
      
                                                  
AGAINST APPLICANT      
      C onclusion  
 
 
 
 
 
In lig
ht  of all  of  the circumstances presented by the record in this  case, it is  not 
clearly consistent with  the national  interest  to grant  Applicant  eligibility for a  security 
clearance.  Eligibility for access to  classified  information is  denied.  
__________________________  
Roger  C.  Wesley  
Administrative Judge  
 10 