 
  
                                                              
                             
          
           
 
 
 
 
    
  
       
     
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
       
       
          
     
           
         
         
    
        
      
   
 
         
      
         
          
         
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00225 
) 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Aubrey M. De Angelis, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
04/09/2025 
Decision 
LOKEY ANDERSON, Darlene D., Administrative Judge: 
Statement of Case  
On January 15, 2023 , Applicant submitted a security clearance application ( e-
QIP). On March 14, 2024, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS) issued Applicant a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR s), detailing security concerns under Guideline F, Financial 
Considerations. Since no response was received from Applicant, a second SOR was 
issued on July 29, 2024. T he action was taken under Executive Order 10865 (EO), 
Safeguarding Classified Information within I ndustry (February 20, 1960), as amended; 
DoD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the National Security 
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or 
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective within the DoD after June 8, 2017. 
Applicant testified that he answered the SOR dated March 14, 2024, but for 
some unknown reason, the response was never received. (Tr. pp. 7 -9.) Applicant 
answered the second SOR on August 31, 2024, and requested a hearing before an 
administrative judge.  The case was assigned to me on January 28, 2025. The Defense 
Office of Hearings and Appeals issued a notice of hearing on February 19, 2025, and 
 
 
        
        
        
           
  
 
 
 
   
         
        
    
 
 
       
     
       
 
 
 
      
      
         
            
         
       
      
 
 
       
         
          
      
        
            
the hearing was convened as scheduled on March 11, 2025. The Government offered 
six exhibits, referred to as Government Exhibits 1 through 6, which were admitted 
without objection. The Applicant offered four exhibits, referred to as Applicant’s Exhibits 
A through D, which were admitted without objection. Applicant testified on his own 
behalf. D OHA received the transcript of the hearing (Tr.) on March 21, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 40 years old. He is not married, has no children, and resides with his 
mother. He has a high school diploma and one year of college. He holds the position 
of Aircraft Structures Mechanic with a defense contractor. He is seeking to obtain a 
security clearance in connection with his employment. 
Guideline F - Financial Considerations  
The Government alleged that Applicant is ineligible for a clearance because he 
made financial decisions that indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which raise questions about his 
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information. 
The  SOR identified  thirteen  delinquent debts,  consisting  of medical debt and  
Federal taxes, totaling  approximately $18,377.15.  In  his answer to  the  SOR, Applicant  
denied  allegations  1.a., 1.b.,  1.c.,  1.d.,  1.e.,  1.f.,  and  1.g., set  forth  under this  guideline.   
However, he  testified  that although  he  denied  most of the  debts listed  in the  SOR, he  
only denied  them  because  they  are  no  longer  listed  on  his credit report.  He  stated  that  
he  should have  admitted  them  because  they were  his delinquent  debts.  (Tr. p. 32.)   
Credit reports of the  Applicant  dated  February 1, 2023; November 8, 2023, and  January  
6, 2025, confirms the indebtedness listed in the SOR.   (Government Exhibit 4, 5, and  6.)   
Applicant began working for his current employer in March 2018. His current 
salary in approximately $77,000, plus quarterly bonuses, with periodic overtime. He 
enjoys his job, but he wants to advance to a different program which requires a security 
clearance. A foot injury caused him to be on leave from November 2023 to April 22, 
2024. During this period, he received medical and disability benefits. Prior to his 
current employment, Applicant worked several part -time jobs, had no medical benefits, 
and could not afford to pay his bills.  
Applicant admitted that he has been financially irresponsible for a long time. He 
testified that when he started working for his current employer, he spoke to several 
employees who advised him to go “exempt” on his tax withholdings in order to receive 
more money in his paycheck. (Tr. p. 49.) Applicant knew that this would cause him to 
owe taxes at the end of the year, but he did not care. (Tr. p. 50.) Applicant’s parents 
told him time and time again to make payments to the IRS to pay your taxes, but he 
2 
 
 
 
 
     
      
        
               
             
     
           
 
         
      
           
          
       
 
 
         
          
          
          
     
 
 
     
 
ignored  their  advice.   (Tr. p.  51.)  For tax years 2017  through  2023, when  Applicant  filed  
his annual income  tax  returns, he  knew  that  he  would  owe money  in taxes  because  of  
his exemptions.  To  make  things worse, in February of every year,  he  was required  to  
renew his “exempt” status, which he did every year until February 2025.  At that time, he  
changed  it from  “exempt” for about a  two-week period, and  then  changed  it back to  
“exempt” that same  month, when  he  learned  that he  was receiving  two  bonuses, in   
order to receive more  money in  his paycheck.  (Tr. p. 54.)  
Applicant stated that he has received numerous letters from the Internal Revenue  
Service  (IRS) but he  has not opened  them.  He knew that they would contain bad  news 
and  so he  ignored  them.  He knows that he has been  careless and  irresponsible.  About  
a  year ago, he  sent the  IRS  an  Offer in Compromise  to  set  up  a  payment arrangement  
to  settle his delinquent  taxes.  He waited  until the  day before the  hearing, to  call  the  IRS  
to  check on  the  status of his request.   During  his call  to  the  IRS, he  arrived  at an  
agreement to  make  monthly payments of $264  to  start April 15, 2025, for taxes owed  in  
the  amount  of  approximately $18,377.15,  for  tax  years 2014,  2015, 2018, 2019,  2020,  
2021, and  2022.  (Tr. pp. 62-65, and Applicant’s Exhibit D.)   
To help this payment process along, Applicant explained that in May 2025, he 
plans to borrow $8,000 from his 401k. He will pay it back through automatic deductions 
from his weekly paychecks. He already has two other loans from his 401k that he is 
currently paying back, but since one of the loans will be paid off in May, he will be 
allowed to obtain another loan. He will use the money from this loan to help pay his 
delinquent taxes. He currently has about $26,000 in his 401k, about $1,000 in his 
savings, and about $1,000 in his checking.  (Tr. pp. 67-69.)   
Applicant admitted that he has a serious addiction to spending money on 
expensive sports shoes, jerseys and hats. He is a serious collector, but recently started 
a little side job where he cleans, restores, and re-glues, high-end designer tennis shoes. 
Business is not great because people do not want to pay the cost of his services. 
Applicant testified that he plans to contact his medical provider to obtain counseling and 
therapy for his addiction.  (Tr. p. 60-62.) 
Applicant stated that he is disappointed in himself for getting into debt. He 
apologized to his parents for not listening to them when they encouraged him to pay his 
taxes. (Tr. pp. 73 -74.) His father is returning to El Salvador at the end of the month. 
Applicant wanted to help his father find a place in the U.S., but he cannot afford to do 
so.  (Tr. pp. 63-64.) 
The following delinquent debts are of security concern: 
1.a.  Applicant is indebted  to  a  creditor for an  account that was placed  for  
collection  in the  approximate  amount of approximately $21,799.  This is a  medical debt  
that  Applicant  incurred  when  he  had  to  have  emergency  surgery.  Applicant  did  not  
3 
 
 
 
   
        
    
      
        
  
 
          
         
         
            
 
     
        
    
       
        
 
     
 
       
        
         
               
   
    
 
     
       
          
       
            
have  medical insurance.  He  did  not pay  the  debt.  It  has been  removed  from  his  credit  
report.  (Tr. p. 31 and  Applicant’s Exhibit B.)         
1.b.  Applicant is indebted  to  a  creditor for an  account that was placed  for  
collection  in the  approximate  amount  of approximately $2,107.   This is a  medical debt  
that  Applicant  incurred  when  he  had  to  have  emergency  surgery.  Applicant  did  not  
have  medical insurance.  He  did  not pay  the  debt.  It  has been  removed  from  his  credit  
report.  (Tr. p. 31.)       
1.c. Applicant is indebted to a creditor for an account that was placed for 
collection in the approximate amount of $681.  This is a medical debt Applicant incurred. 
This debt was removed from Applicant’s credit report because it was an old debt. 
Applicant may have initially made a payment of $40 or $50 towards the debt. (Tr. p. 
31.)   
1.d. Applicant is indebted to a creditor for an account that was placed for 
collection in the approximate amount of $360. This is a medical debt Applicant 
incurred. The debt was removed from Applicant’s credit report because it was an old 
debt. Applicant may have initially made a payment of $40 or $50 towards the debt. (Tr. 
p. 31.)   
1.e. Applicant is indebted to a creditor for an account that was placed for 
collection in the approximate amount of $305.  This is a medical debt Applicant incurred. 
The debt was removed from Applicant’s credit report because it was an old debt. 
Applicant may have initially made a payment of $40 or $50 towards the debt. (Tr. p. 
31.)  
1.f.  Applicant is indebted  to  a  creditor for an  account that was placed  for 
collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of $121. This is a  medical debt that Applicant  
incurred  when  he  had  to  have  emergency surgery.  Applicant did not have  medical  
insurance.  He did  not pay the  debt.   It  has been  removed  from  his credit report.  (Tr. p.  
31.)   
1.g. Applicant is indebted to a creditor for an account that was placed for 
collection in the approximate amount of $100. This was a medical debt that Applicant 
incurred when he had to have emergency surgery. Applicant did not have medical 
insurance. He did not pay the debt. (Tr. p. 41, and Government Exhibit 3.) The debt 
has been removed from his credit report.  (Tr. p. 31 and Applicant’s Exhibit B.)   
1.h. Applicant is indebted to the Federal Government for delinquent taxes in the 
approximate amount of $26.30 for tax year 2014. Applicant stated that he uses a tax 
preparer who is a friend of his mother’s to prepare his income tax returns. He stated 
that he was not aware that he owed back taxes for tax year 2014, until he checked the 
IRS website in 2023, when he completed DOHA interrogatories. In response to his 
4 
 
 
       
     
    
      
 
    
    
 
 
 
 
 
      
        
       
interrogatories dated October 2023, he stated that he owed back taxes for tax years 
2014, 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021.  (Tr. pp. 46-47)    
1.i.  Applicant  is indebted  to  the  Federal Government for delinquent  taxes in  the  
amount  of approximately $1,410.48  for tax year 2015.    Applicant stated  that he  uses a  
tax preparer who  is  a  friend of  his mother’s  to  prepare  his income  tax returns.  He  stated  
that he  was not aware  that he  owed  back taxes for tax year 2015, until he  checked  the  
IRS  website  in  2023,  when  he  completed  DOHA interrogatories.  In  response  to  his  
interrogatories dated  October 2023, he  stated  that he  owed  back  taxes for tax years  
2014, 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021.  (Tr. pp. 46-47, and Applicant’s Exhibit D.)       
1.j.   Applicant  is indebted  to  the  Federal Government for delinquent taxes in the  
amount  of  approximately $1,016.04  for tax year 2018.   In  2017, Applicant deliberately  
filed  exempt  to  avoid  paying  taxes.   He currently owes  a  total of  $18,377.15  in  Federal  
back taxes  to  the  IRS.   He  recently made  arrangements  with  the  IRS  to  start  paying  off  
the  debt in April 2025.  (Applicant’s Exhibit D.)    
1.k.  Applicant is  indebted  to  the  Federal  Government  for delinquent taxes  in the  
amount  of  approximately $4,111.36  for tax year 2019.    In  2017, Applicant  deliberately  
filed  exempt  to  avoid  paying  taxes.   He currently owes  a  total of  $18,377.15  in  Federal  
back taxes  to  the  IRS.   He  recently made  arrangements  with  the  IRS  to  start  paying  off  
the  debt in April 2025.  (Applicant’s Exhibit D.)  
1.l.   Applicant  is indebted  to  the  Federal Government for delinquent taxes in the  
amount  of  approximately $3,997.49  for tax years 2020.  In  2017,  Applicant  deliberately  
filed  exempt  to  avoid  paying  taxes.   He currently owes  a  total of  $18,377.15  in  Federal  
back taxes  to  the  IRS.   He  recently made  arrangements  with  the  IRS  to  start  paying  off  
the  debt in April 2025.  (Applicant’s Exhibit D.)  
1.m.   Applicant is indebted  to  the  Federal Government for delinquent taxes in the  
amount  of  approximately $5,297.54  for tax years 2021.  In  2017,  Applicant  deliberately  
filed  exempt  to  avoid  paying  taxes.   He currently owes  a  total of  $18,377.15  in  Federal  
back taxes  to  the  IRS.   He  recently made  arrangements  with  the  IRS  to  start  paying  off  
the  debt in April 2025.  (Applicant’s Exhibit D.)  
Applicant also recently learned  that  he  owes Federal  delinquent  taxes in  the  
amount  of  approximately $1,407.08  for tax  year 2022.  He plans to  start paying  off  that  
debt in April 2025.  (Applicant’s Exhibit D.)   
Policies 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance , the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
5 
 
 
         
   
 
          
    
           
     
      
        
            
 
 
      
    
        
           
        
 
 
       
       
       
     
            
  
 
           
   
  
              
      
       
        
  
 
          
               
       
   
 
 
 
       
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The 
administrative judge’s over arching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and 
commonsense decision. The entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number o f 
variables known as the whole -person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I 
have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical and based on the 
evidence contained in the record. Likewise, I have avoided drawing inferences 
grounded on mere speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, 
or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel .” The 
applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable clearance 
decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The g overnment 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to 
potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline F -  Financial Considerations  
The security concern for Financial Considerations is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
6 
 
 
 
     
   
            
   
      
          
     
    
    
        
       
  
 
 
    
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
    
      
         
 
  
       
 
 
  
 
Failure to live within one's means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
Affluence that cannot be explained by known sources of income is also a 
security concern insofar as it may result from criminal activity, including 
espionage. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. Three are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) inability or unwillingness to satisfy debts;   
(c)  a history of not meeting financial obligations; and  
(f)  failure to  file or fraudulently filing  annual Federal, state, or local income  
tax returns or failure to  pay annual Federal,  state, or local income  tax as  
required.    
Applicant has a long history of not addressing his financial obligations, 
specifically his medical debts and Federal taxes for tax years 2014, 2015, 2018, 2019, 
2020, 2021, and 2022. His actions or inactions both demonstrate a history of not 
addressing his debt and/or an inability to do so. The evidence is sufficient to raise the 
above disqualifying conditions. 
The following mitigating conditions under the Financial Considerations guideline 
are potentially applicable under AG ¶ 20: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or occurred  
under such  circumstances that it is unlikely to  recur and  does not cast  
doubt on   the  individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good   
judgment;  
(b) the  conditions  that resulted  in the  financial problem  were largely  
beyond  the  person’s  control (e.g. loss   of employment, a   business  
downturn, unexpected  medical emergency, or a  death, divorce,  or  
separation), and  the individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;   
7 
 
 
 
   
  
  
        
        
         
            
          
     
 
 
 
          
      
         
    
  
 
(d) the  individual  initiated  and  is adhering  to  a  good  faith  effort to  repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  and   
(e) the  individual has  a  reasonable basis to  dispute  the  legitimacy  of the  
past-due  debt which  is the  cause  of the  problem  and  provides  
documented  proof  to  substantiate  the  basis  of  the  dispute  or provides  
evidence of actions to  resolve the issue.  
Applicant has  ignored  his delinquent debts for many years.  The  medical debt  
listed  in the  SOR is no  longer reflected  on  his credit report as  owing  because  it is old  
debt, and  not  because  he  has  paid  if off.   He  stated  that  he  made  one  or  two  payments  
of $40  or  $50,  but for  the  most  part,  most of the  debts  remained  owing.  In  addition,  
although  he  has had  full-time  employment  since  2017, he  deliberately filed  “exempt” to  
avoid paying  taxes, and  now owes approximately $18,377.15, in  Federal taxes. The  day  
before the  hearing, he  contacted  the  IRS  and  set up  a  payment plan  that he  plans to  
follow.  He has not yet  made  his first payment towards resolving  any of his tax liability.  
Applicant’s  history of financial irresponsibility and  inaction  for so  long  casts doubt on  his  
current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  judgment.  Applicant now appears to  want to  
resolve his  debt,  but he  has a  lot  of  work to  do  to  achieve  this.  At  this time, Applicant  
has not shown sufficient good  judgment,  reliability, responsibility,  or trustworthiness,  to  
be  eligible  for access to  classified  information.  None  of the  mitigating  conditions are  
applicable.   
There is insufficient evidence in the record to show that Applicant has made a 
good-faith effort to resolve his debts. Overall, Applicant shows little to no progress 
towards resolving his debts. He owes a significant amount of money to the Federal 
Government that he has not started to pay. There is insufficient evidence in the record 
to show that he has carried his burden of proof to establish mitigation of the 
Government’s security concerns under Guideline F. Accordingly, guideline F is found 
against the Applicant. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole -person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
8 
 
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of  
 
 
      
      
    
 
      
       
           
    
         
  
 
       
      
      
 
 
 
      
   
 
   
 
     
 
 
 
             
      
   
                                                
 
 
 
 
 
            
rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation 
for the conduct; (8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or 
duress; and (9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole -person concept. In the event that 
Applicant follows through with his commitment to show financial responsibility, 
sometime in the future he may be found eligible to properly protect and access 
classified information, but not at this time. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
relevant facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I conclude Applicant has not 
mitigated the Financial Considerations security concern. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by ¶ E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  F:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 1.a., through  1.m.   Against Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue Applicant’s eligibility for 
a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Darlene Lokey Anderson 
Administrative Judge 
9 