 
  
 
  
        
         
           
             
 
 
  
  
             
   
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
  
 
  
   
  
   
 
  
   
      
  
  
   
 
 
  
 
___________ 
___________ 
DEPAR
TMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance  
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 24-02156 
Appearances  
For Government: Lauren Shure, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
09/18/2025 
Decision 
HARVEY, Mark, Administrative Judge: 
Guideline F (financial considerations) security concerns are not mitigated. 
Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On November 20, 2023, Applicant completed an Electronic Questionnaires for 
Investigations Processing or security clearance application (SCA). (Government Exhibit 
(GE) 1) On January 7, 2025, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
(DCSA) issued a statement of reasons (SOR) to Applicant under Executive Order (Exec. 
Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960); 
Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security 
Clearance Review Program (Directive) (January 2, 1992), as amended; and Security 
Executive Agent Directive 4, establishing in Appendix A, the National Security 
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or 
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AGs), effective June 8, 2017. (Hearing Exhibit (HE) 
2) 
The SOR detailed reasons why the DCSA did not find under the Directive that it is 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant or continue a security 
clearance for Applicant and recommended referral to an administrative judge to determine 
 
 
 
     
   
      
 
   
   
     
 
    
      
       
    
   
 
     
  
    
    
    
      
     
   
     
    
       
    
        
        
 
 
   
 
 
     
      
   
      
       
    
   
     
  
 
  
whether a clearance should be granted, continued, denied, or revoked. Specifically, the 
SOR set forth security concerns arising under Guideline F. (HE 2) On January 8, 2025, 
Applicant responded to the SOR. (HE 3) On January 29, 2025, Department Counsel was 
ready to proceed. On May 27, 2025, the case was assigned to me. 
On June 4, 2025, the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a 
notice scheduling the hearing on July 23, 2025. The hearing was held as scheduled using 
the Microsoft Teams video teleconference system. 
During the hearing, Department Counsel offered seven exhibits into evidence, and 
Applicant offered t hree exhibits into evidence. (Tr. 11, 16 -20; GE 1 -GE 7; Applicant 
Exhibit (AE) A (documents received July 7, 2025) , AE B (documents received July 9, 
2025); AE C (SOR ¶ 1.c payment plan)) There were no objections at the hearing, except 
for GE 7. (Tr. 18) 
GE 7 consisted of complaints filed in court by Applicant’s landlord against 
Applicant. (Tr. 17) Applicant explained he was unable to pay his rent because of the 
COVID-19 pandemic; his service dog nipped a worker ; and his employer placed him on 
leave without pay (LWOP) . (Tr. 18) After his DOHA hearing, he provided objections or 
explanation relating to GE s 2 and 6. He said, “I respectfully assert that the changes 
between Exhibit 2 and Exhibit 6 — and now Exhibit C — represent successful resolution, 
not contradiction. My actions meet the standards outlined in Guideline F, paragraphs 
20(c), 20(d), and 20(e), and reflect the character and responsibility expected of a 
clearance holder.” (AE D) I overruled Applicant’s objections to admissibility of GEs 2, 6, 
and 7. However, his comments w ere considered as limiting the weight GEs 2, 6, and 7 
received. (Tr. 18 -19) All proffered exhibits are admitted into evidence. (Tr. 19, 20) On 
August 1, 2025, DOHA received a copy of the transcript. Applicant provided an email with 
attachments after the hearing, which I admitted into evidence. (AE D) On August 27, 2025, 
the record closed. (Tr.  92, 103) 
Some details were excluded to protect Applicant’s right to privacy. Specific 
information is available in the cited exhibits and transcript. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 33-year-old information technology specialist who has worked for a 
government contractor for about 18 months. (Tr. 5-7, 22) In 2011, he graduated from high 
school. (Tr. 5, 25 ) He has a radiology certification. (Tr. 6) He has about three years of 
college credits. (Tr. 6) He has never served in the military. (Tr. 6 ; GE 1 ) He has never 
married, and he does not have any children. (Tr. 7) His cohabitant has annual income of 
about $33,000. (Tr. 26) They share household expenses. (Tr. 26) For six years before his 
employment with the government contractor , he worked for the same employer 
performing accounts payable work. (Tr. 8) He is sponsored for a security clearance; 
however, he is currently on LWOP status. (Tr. 26) 
2 
 
 
 
 
    
 
   
 
   
   
   
      
      
 
    
    
  
    
    
    
   
  
   
   
   
 
 
 
      
 
       
    
 
    
  
  
     
    
    
Financial Considerations   
In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a through 
1.e, 1.h, and 1.n. He denied the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.f, 1.g, and 1.i through 1.m. He 
also provided extenuating and mitigating information. His admissions are accepted as 
findings of fact. 
In his November 20, 2023 SCA, Applicant said in the previous seven years he did 
not default on any debts, did not have any debts in collections, did not have any charged-
off debts, and did not have any judgments . (GE 1 at 21 -22) He denied that he had any 
debts which were delinquent over 120 days. (GE 1 at 21- 22) He said he omitted the 
delinquent debts in his SOR because he was unaware of them. 
Applicant’s SOR alleges he has 14 delinquent debts totaling $ 24,584. The debts 
are listed in his credit bureau reports (CBRs) from 2023 and 2024. He said the debts in 
SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.e became delinquent because of his unemployment or 
underemployment due to the COVID -19 pandemic. Applicant paid a debt recovery 
company (DRC) or credit repair company (CRC) $100 monthly to correct his CBRs, and 
the DRC disputed the negative information on his credit report s. (Tr. 46; GE 4 at 19) 
Recently, he has been unable to make progress resolving his debts because he went on 
LWOP due to the lack of a security clearance. He made a series of statements about the 
status of the debts alleged in his SOR to an investigator from the Office of Personnel 
Management (OPM), in his responses to DOHA interrogatories, in his SOR response, 
and at his hearing. 
February 24, 2025 Report of  Identity Theft  
On February 24,  2025,  Applicant  filed a report of  identity theft. (AE  A; AE D)  He 
said fraudulent information was on his credit report for  the following four  SOR accounts:  
1.c for $520; 1.d for $473; 1.f for $341;  and 1.l for $633.  (Tr.  46,  49; AE A)  He said,  “Under  
penalty of  perjury, I  declare this information is true and correct to the best of  my  
knowledge.” (AE A) He said that  due to his report of identity theft, “all three credit  bureaus  
did their own investigation upon receiving this  [identity theft]  report,  and they found that it  
was some type of  discrepancy or some type of error with the report.  And,  they deleted it.” 
(Tr. 49)   
The status of the 14 SOR debts is as follows: 
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges Applicant has a debt placed for collection for about $11,600. 
This debt resulted from rent he failed to pay his landlord. (Tr. 39) 
On September 17, 2021, and November 4, 2021, Applicant’s landlord filed 
complaints in a local court for $3,300 for two months of unpaid rent. (Tr. 29-30; GE 7 at 
3-5) The November 4, 2021 complaint was dismissed. (GE 7 at 5) On January 20, 2022, 
the court approved his eviction. (GE 7 at 4) In October 2022, Applicant’s landlord sought 
an order to evict him because Applicant’s dog allegedly “bit and attacked the Contractor.” 
(GE 7 at 9, 11) In October, the court ordered Applicant’s eviction, and he appealed. (GE 
3 
 
 
    
     
    
   
 
  
   
  
   
  
 
   
   
  
 
 
   
    
    
    
 
     
 
    
        
     
   
  
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
7 at 14) On October 26, 2022, the court ordered Applicant to deliver possession of the 
premises within 60 days. (GE 7 at 16) As to the orders for payment in 2021, Applicant 
said the rent became overdue because he was unable to pay the rent due to 
unemployment during the COVID-19 pandemic. (Tr. 31-32) 
For the debt in SOR ¶ 1.a for $11,600, the summary of Applicant’s OPM PSI said, 
“Subject does not dispute this account and stated this was the left-over balance from his 
rental apartment at . . . . Subject stated he is in the process of setting up a payment plan 
for the balance, however as of this date has no additional information.” (GE 4 at 3 of 5) In 
his SOR response Applicant said, "I admit the debt. Due to financial hardship from the 
COVID-19 pandemic, l was unable to make timely payments. I am currently working with 
a [CRC] to settle this debt or reach a payment arrangement with [the creditor]. The 
company is actively assisting in resolving [this debt].” He did not provide a copy of his 
agreement with the C RC, and it is unclear whether the D RC was responsible for 
negotiating payment agreements with creditors. 
On March 18, 2025, Applicant’s landlord sought $3,081 from him. (GE 7 at 6) On 
May 2, 2025, the court ordered Applicant to pay $1,151. (GE 7 at 7) As for the failure to 
pay rent in 2025, he said it was due to being placed on LWOP due to lack of a security 
clearance. (Tr. 34) Applicant said he paid the rent after his court dates. (Tr. 30, 33) He 
said he did not have any proof of payment. (Tr. 31, 34) He said his rent for 2025 is current, 
and he has proof of payment. (Tr. 36) 
At his hearing, Applicant said he received $8,600 in rental relief, and he does not 
owe a balance on th e SOR ¶ 1.a rental debt. (Tr. 39-40) His debt recovery company 
(DRC) disputed the debt, and it was removed from his credit report. (Tr. 41, 43) He said 
he had emails showing that rental relief paid the debt. (Tr. 41) He did not provide the 
emails after his hearing. 
After his hearing, Applicant provided a statement which said, “Rental judgments 
were filed but paid in full. These were circumstantial, stemming from a period when I was 
placed on Leave Without Pay (LWOP), reducing my income significantly. I resolved them 
promptly and without avoidance.” (AE D at 3) 
SOR  ¶ 1.b  alleges  Applicant  has a charged-off account for $1,547.  In his  SOR  
response,  he  said, “I  admit  the debt. The financial difficulties caused by the COVID -19  
pandemic affected my ability  to meet my financial  obligations. I have engaged a  [CRC]  
company  to help resolve this  debt. The company is working with [the creditor] to reach a  
settlement or an agreement to pay  off  the balance.” Applicant contacted the creditor to  
arrange a payment  plan; however, he was  unable to implement  his payment  plan because  
of his LWOP status. (Tr. 52)  A  May 14, 2025 letter from the collection company  stated  the 
debt balance was  $1,950,  and the collection  company  was scheduled to deposit a post -
dated check for $70 on May 24, 2025. (AE  A) Applicant said that  he had been making  
$70 payments since February  2025. (Tr. 53)  He did not provide proof of  any  payments to  
address the ac count.   
4 
 
 
       
      
    
    
 
        
    
   
    
  
 
   
      
  
   
   
 
 
     
   
   
  
 
   
    
   
   
  
  
 
 
    
   
    
     
   
  
 
   
     
  
       
    
 
 
 
SOR ¶¶ 1.c for $520, 1.d for $473, 1.e for $464, and 1.h for $504. (GE 2 at 4-5) 
The same collection company was seeking payment o f the four debts, and they will be 
discussed together, infra. In Applicant’s February 24, 2025, identity theft report he said 
fraudulent information was on his credit report for SOR ¶¶ 1.c and 1.d. (AE A) 
In his SOR response for SOR ¶¶ 1.c, 1.d, 1.e, and 1.h, Applicant said, “I admit the 
debt.” He explained that he had a financial hardship due to the COVID-19 pandemic. He 
is using a CRC, and they are actively working to settle the debt or, if possible, have the 
item removed from his credit report. The CRC “is negotiating with [the creditor] to resolve 
this matter.” 
Applicant provided a March 2025 letter from the collection company for two 
accounts (SOR ¶¶ 1.c and 1.h) indicating he was supposed to pay $42 monthly for each 
account from March 2023 to February 2024. ( Tr. 55 -57; AE C) He provided a report 
indicating multiple accounts were deleted from his CBRs. (GE 4 at 20 -25) However, he 
did not provide proof of any payments, and he did not provide a good faith basis for 
disputing the debts. 
As to the four accounts being collected by the same collection company, the CBRs 
deleted some of the accounts from Applicant’s CBRs. (Tr. 59) He conceded he owed the 
debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.d and 1.e; they were deleted from his CBRs; and he did not make any 
payments to the collection company. (Tr. 60-62) 
SOR ¶ 1.h. Applicant said in his SOR response, “I am currently working with a 
[CRC] to resolve this account, either by settling the debt or by having the item removed 
from my credit report. The [CRC] is negotiating with [the creditor] to reach a resolution.” 
Applicant said the collection company showed inconsistent amounts for the debts on his 
CBRs. The debt in SOR ¶ 1.h for $504 was shown to have a zero amount in a CBR; 
however, his CBR shows the account was transferred to a collection company . (Tr. 59) 
For the debt in SOR ¶ 1.h for $504, Applicant said: 
There’s no balance. I did have an account. But I don’t have, I’ve never used 
it. I cancelled it out as soon as I got it. So I’m not sure why it’s still reflecting. 
Even on your reports that you have on Exhibit 3 this shows no balance for 
that. For your Exhibit 2 I ’m not sure if it did show a balance. But there 
shouldn’t be any balance. It’s the same thing with the other account that we 
just previously talked about, but with a different company. I just didn’ t use 
them. (Tr. 73) 
Applicant’s December 9, 2023 CBR showed the account in SOR ¶ 1.h with a balance of 
$504. (GE 2 at 7) His November 5, 2024 CBR showed the original creditor account with 
an initial amount of $502, a balance of $0, and the comments said it was transferred or 
sold. (GE 3 at 2) Once a debt is transferred, the amount owed to the original creditor is 
zero. His July 2, 2025 CBR shows the debt balance is $504. ( 72-73; GE 6 at 2) After 
Department Counsel pointed out the information from his July 2, 2025 CBR, Applicant 
said: 
5 
 
 
    
   
 
    
 
 
 
  
    
  
       
  
 
  
 
 
   
    
  
 
       
 
     
      
    
    
     
     
    
     
    
    
 
      
   
  
   
   
     
Yes. That’s incorrect. There shouldn’t have been a balance on that card at 
all. Because I never used it. Because it was just a, two of these cards was 
just a way for me to just build up my credit report during COVID. But I never 
used it, because of COVID. I didn’t want it to be left with a balance, like it’s 
saying that I am left with. But yes, these accounts, they're reported 
incorrectly. (Tr. 74) 
SOR ¶ 1.f. For the debt in SOR ¶ 1.f for $341, Applicant’s OPM PSI states, “Subject 
disputes this account stating that it was for an outstanding car insurance bill, however he 
paid the debt in full in 07/2023. . . .” (GE 4 at 4 of 5) In Applicant’s response to 
interrogatories, he said the debt in SOR ¶ 1.f for $341 was paid. (Tr. 62; GE 4 at 9) In his 
SOR response, Applicant said, “I deny the debt. This account was deleted from my credit 
report through the services of a [CRC]. The company successfully removed this item, and 
I no longer have any financial obligation to [the creditor] related to this account.” 
In Applicant’s February 24, 2025, identity theft  report  he said fraudulent information  
was on his credit report for  ¶ 1.f for $341. (AE A)  At his  hearing, Applicant said he paid  
the debt. (Tr. 62- 63)  He said he traded in a vehicle and used a different insurance  
company with the new vehicle. (Tr. 63) He said he did not owe a balance on the SOR ¶  
1.f account when he closed the account. (Tr.  63)  He did not  base his dispute of the SOR  
¶ 1.f account on identity theft. (Tr. 64)  The SOR ¶  1.f debt was deleted from  his CBRs.  
(Tr. 64)  
Of the four debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.f, 1.g, 1.h, and 1.j , Applicant believed there was a 
duplication, and one of them was paid. (Tr. 59) He did not indicate which of the debts was 
a duplication. 
SOR ¶ 1.g. For the charged-off debt in SOR ¶ 1.g for $274, Applicant’s January 
23, 2024 OPM PSI indicates, “Subject does not dispute this account and stated it was a 
credit card used for daily purchases. Subject stated that he has taken no action to repay 
the balance due to the account being charged off. . . . ” (GE 4 at 3 -4 of 5) In his SOR 
response, Applicant said, “I deny the debt. This account was deleted from my credit report 
through the [CRC] I have been working with. They successfully negotiated for the removal 
of the account, and I no longer owe this debt.” At his hearing, he said he paid the debt in 
SOR ¶ 1.g for $274. (Tr. 64) He had a credit card, and he had a balance on it. (Tr. 69) He 
had the account; he put money on the card; he contacted the creditor ; and the account 
has a zero balance. (Tr. 65, 70, 72) It was deleted from his CBR. (Tr. 64-65, 68, 71-72) It 
was not part of the identity theft. (Tr. 71-72) He did not provide proof of payment or a letter 
from the creditor indicating the debt was resolved. 
SOR ¶ 1.i alleges Applicant has a past-due debt for $20 with a balance of $20. In 
his SOR response, Applicant said, “I deny the debt. This account was removed from my 
credit report by the [CRC] . They were able to successfully have the debt deleted, and I 
no longer owe anything related to this account.” At his hearing, Applicant said he signed 
up for a monthly subscription, and he said he cancelled the subscription before he 
received anything. (Tr. 74-75) He disputed his responsibility for the debt. (Tr. 75) The debt 
6 
 
 
     
    
 
   
  
 
   
    
    
    
     
     
  
 
  
      
     
    
      
     
 
       
 
 
    
 
     
      
      
   
  
 
    
 
      
 
   
    
  
  
is not shown on his July 2, 2025 CBR. (GE 6) The $20 debt is too small to raise a security 
concern, and it is mitigated. 
For SOR ¶ 1.j for $1,596, Applicant’s OPM PSI indicates, “Subject does not dispute 
this account and stated it was a credit card used for daily purchases. Subject stated that 
he has taken no action to repay the balance due to the account being charged off. . . .” 
(GE 4 at 3-4 of 5) He admitted the debt in response to DOHA interrogatories and said it 
was paid. In his SOR response for SOR ¶ 1.j for $1,596, Applicant said, “I deny the debt. 
This account was successfully removed from my credit report by my [CRC]. They 
negotiated with [the creditor], and the account was deleted from my credit history. I no 
longer owe any balance related to this debt.” At his hearing, he denied that he had an 
account with creditor. (Tr. 75-76) He disputed the debt, and it is not shown on his July 2, 
2025 CBR. (Tr. 76; GE 6) 
For SOR ¶ 1.k for $1,066, the summary of his January 23, 2024 OPM PSI for the 
debt in his CBR is as follows, “Subject does not dispute this account and stated it was for 
a credit card used for daily purchases. Subject stated that he has taken no action to repay 
the balance due to the account being charged off. Subject could provide no additional 
information.” (GE 4 at 3 of 5) In his SOR response, Applicant said, “I deny the debt. This 
account was deleted from my credit report through the services of my [CRC]. They 
successfully resolved the matter with [the creditor], and the account is no longer reflected 
on my credit report.” At his hearing, he denied responsibility for this debt. (Tr. 77) 
For SOR ¶ 1.l,  Applicant  owed a college $633. In his  response to DOHA  
interrogatories,  he  said the debt was paid through a state income tax refund. (Tr.  81-82) 
In his SOR response,  Applicant said, “I deny  the debt. The account  was removed from by  
credit report by the [CRC] . They were able to successfully have the debt deleted,  and I  
no longer owe anything related to this account.”  At his  hearing, he denied this debt.  (Tr.  
81) He said he did not have proof  of  payment. (Tr. 81)  It was removed from two CBRs;  
however, it  is shown on his July  2,  2025 CBR.  (Tr. 82; GE 6 at 2)  
SOR ¶ 1.m. For the charged-off debt in SOR ¶ 1.m for $603, Applicant’s January 
23, 2024 OPM PSI indicates, “Subject does not dispute this account and stated it was a 
credit card used for daily purchases. Subject stated that he has taken no action to repay 
the balance due to the account being charged off. . . . ” (GE 4 at 3 -4 of 5) In his SOR 
response for SOR ¶ 1.m, Applicant said, “I deny the debt. The [CRC] I hired successfully 
negotiated the removal of this account from my credit report. The account no longer 
appears, and I am no longer responsible for any balance related to this debt.” He also 
said he may have been confused because SOR ¶ 1.m for $603 is owed to the same 
creditor as another SOR debt, and he admitted responsibility for the SOR ¶ 1.m debt. (Tr. 
78-79) He said he had a payment plan to address it. (Tr. 79) He disputed the debts owed 
to the creditor, and the creditor was not listed on his current CBR. (Tr. 78, 80, 82; GE 6) 
For SOR ¶ 1.n, Applicant’s December 9, 2023 CBR indicates his SOR ¶ 1.n debt 
for $4,943 was assigned in January 2016 and reported in October 2023. (GE 2 at 7) The 
debt resulted from financing a vehicle, the original amount was $23,305. (GE 2 at 7) For 
the charged-off debt in SOR ¶ 1.n for $4,943, Applicant’s OPM PSI indicates, “Subject 
7 
 
 
    
  
     
 
     
  
    
   
   
 
    
     
 
  
 
 
    
   
    
  
  
 
     
 
 
  
    
  
   
  
   
    
  
  
  
  
   
   
 
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
does not dispute the account but stated that the balance is incorrect. Subject believes it 
to be lower, however he could provide no additional information at the time of the 
interview.” (GE 4 at 4 of 5) In his SOR response, Applicant said, "I admit the debt. This 
debt was caused by financial hardship resulting from the COVID -19 pandemic, which 
impacted my ability to make payments. I have been working with a [CRC] to settle the 
account or reach a payment agreement. We are actively negotiating with [the creditor] to 
resolve this matter.” Applicant said, “Once I did my trade in for a newer vehicle the balance 
that was remaining on the account had been paid off by, the worth of the car paid off any 
remaining balance of the previous car.” (Tr. 82) The debt was removed from his CBR. 
Applicant understood that removal of debts from a CBR does not establish that the 
debt is paid or resolved. (Tr. 83) He does not have any funds available to address his 
debts. (Tr. 84) His income is low because he is on LWOP. (Tr. 85) He has received 
financial counseling. (Tr. 86) 
Character Evidence  
On July 1, 2025, Applicant’s manager supports his access to classified information. 
(AE A) His manager said Applicant started his employment in December 2023. “Since his 
employment with [his current employer], under my supervision, he has proven to be 
competent in carrying out the duties of his responsibilities. [He] is a trusted employee and 
has handled our sensitive documentation with utmost care.” (AE A) 
On July 2, 2025, Applicant’s facility security manager said: 
[Applicant] has consistently demonstrated a high level of integrity, 
professionalism, and strict adherence to all applicable security clearance 
protocols during his tenure with [his employer]. . . . [He] has upheld all 
standards required by his security clearance, and there have been no 
recorded security infractions or violations of any kind. He has consistently 
completed mandatory security training on time, and he maintains a clear 
understanding of the responsibilities that accompany access to sensitive 
information. In addition to his compliance with security protocols, [Applicant] 
has shown discretion and sound judgment in handling proprietary, PII and 
sensitive materials. His conduct reflects respect for both the letter and the 
spirit of our organization’s security policies. Given his unblemished record 
and demonstrated commitment to safeguarding sensitive information, and 
having no information to the contrary, I fully support [Applicant] in any review 
or renewal process related to his security clearance. (AE D) 
Applicant concluded his post -hearing statement with a request for careful 
consideration of “My honesty and transparency ; My consistent progress toward 
resolution; My excellent performance in a sensitive national security role; [and] My 
alignment with all applicable mitigating guidelines.” (AE D at 4) 
8 
 
 
 
  
 
   
     
   
    
   
 
     
     
 
 
  
  
   
    
 
   
  
  
 
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
     
Policies  
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion of the Executive 
Branch in regulating access to information pertaining to national security emphasizing, 
“no one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 
518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority “to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual 
is sufficiently trustworthy” to have access to such information. Id. at 527. Th e President 
has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants eligibility for 
access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly consistent with the 
national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable, and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation 
about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Clearance 
decisions must be “in terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a 
determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 § 7. 
Thus, nothing in this decision should be construed to suggest that it is based, in whole or 
in part, on any express or implied determination about applicant’s allegiance, loyalty, or 
patriotism. It is merely an indication the applicant has not met the strict guidelines the 
President, Secretary of Defense, and Director of National Intelligence have established 
for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 95 -0611 at 2 
(App. Bd. May 2, 1996). 
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition by substantial 
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
   
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
  
 
    
     
   
 
  
    
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
   
 
      
   
 
 
 
facts. Directive ¶  E3.1.15. An applicant “has  the ultimate burden of  demonstrating that it  
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant  or continue his [or  her] security  
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01- 20700 at  3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). The bur den of  
disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the Government.  See  ISCR Case No. 02-
31154 at  5 (App. Bd.  Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  Egan, 484 U.S. at 531;  see  AG  ¶ 2(b).  
Analysis  
Financial Considerations  
AG ¶ 18 articulates the security concern for financial problems: 
Failure to live within one’s means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security co.ncern such as excessive gambling, mental 
.health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
AG ¶ 19 includes disqualifying conditions that could raise a security concern and 
may be disqualifying in this case: “(a) inability to satisfy debts ”; and “(c) a history of not 
meeting financial obligations.” 
The Appeal Board explained the scope and rationale for the financial 
considerations security concern in ISCR Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012) 
(citation omitted) as follows: 
This concern is broader than the possibility that an applicant might 
knowingly compromise classified information in order to raise money in 
satisfaction of his or her debts. Rather, it requires a Judge to examine the 
totality of an applicant’s financial history and circumstances. The Judge 
must consider pertinent evidence regarding the applicant’s self -control, 
judgment, and other qualities essential to protecting the national secrets as 
well as the vulnerabilities inherent in the circumstances. The Directi ve 
presumes a nexus between proven conduct under any of the Guidelines 
and an applicant’s security eligibility. 
In ISCR Case No. 08 -12184 at 7 (App. Bd. Jan. 7, 2010), the Appeal Board 
explained the role of CBRs in financial considerations analysis: 
It is well-settled that adverse information from a credit report can normally 
meet the substantial evidence standard and the government’s obligations 
10 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
      
  
       
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
   
   
 
under [Directive] ¶ E3.1.14 for pertinent allegations. At that point, the burden 
shifts to applicant to establish either that [he or] she is not responsible for 
the debt or that matters in mitigation apply. 
(internal citation omitted). 
The record establishes the disqualifying conditions in AG ¶ ¶ 19(a) and 19(c).  
requiring additional inquiry about the possible applicability of mitigating conditions. 
Discussion of the disqualifying conditions is contained in the mitigation section, infra. The 
financial considerations mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 which may be applicable in 
this case are as follows: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was  
 so infrequent, or occurred  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good judgment;  
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial  pr oblem were largely beyond  
the person’s control  (e.g., loss of employment, a business  downturn,  
unexpected medical  emergency, a death, divorce or separation, clear  
victimization by  predatory  lending practi ces, or identity theft),  and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
(c) the individual  has  received or is receiving financial counseling for the  
problem from  a legitimate and credible source, such as a non- profit credit  
counseling service,  and there are clear indications that the problem is being  
resolved or is under control;   
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- f aith effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  and    
(e) the individual has  a r easonable basis to  dispute the legitimacy of  the 
past-due debt which is  the cause of the problem and provides documented  
proof to substantiate the basis of  the dispute or provides evidence of  actions  
to resolve the issue.  
The 
Appeal Board in ISCR Case No. 10- 04641 at 4 (App. Bd. Sept. 24, 2013) 
explained Applicant’s responsibility for proving the applicability of mitigating conditions as 
follows: 
Once a concern arises regarding an Applicant’s security clearance 
eligibility, there is a strong presumption against the grant or maintenance of 
a security clearance. See Dorfmont v. Brown, 913 F. 2d 1399, 1401 (9th 
Cir. 1990), cert. denied, 499 U.S. 905 (1991). After the Government 
presents evidence raising security concerns, the burden shifts to the 
applicant to rebut or mitigate those concerns. See Directive ¶ E3.1.15. The 
standard applicable in security clearance decisions is that articulated in 
Egan, supra. “Any doubt concerning personnel being considered for access 
11 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
     
 
    
 
 
   
  
 
   
  
    
   
    
  
  
    
 
 
  
  
    
  
    
   
  
   
      
  
 
   
 
    
    
    
  
   
 
       
  
 
      
to classified information will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Directive, Enclosure 2 ¶ 2(b). 
“[A] single debt can be sufficient to raise Guideline F security concerns.” ISCR 
Case No. 19- 02667 at 3 (App. Bd. Nov. 3, 2021) (citing ISCR Case No. 14- 05366 at 3 
(App. Bd. Feb. 5, 2016)). “Additionally, a single debt that remains unpaid over a period of 
years can properly be characterized as a history of not meeting financial obligations.” Id. 
AG ¶ 20(a) does not apply to the Applicant’s SOR debts. “It is also well established 
that an applicant’s ongoing, unpaid debts demonstrate a continuing course of conduct 
and can be viewed as recent for purposes of the Guideline F mitigating conditions.” ISCR 
22-02226 at 2 (App. Bd. Oct. 27, 2023) (ci ting ISCR Case No. 15 -06532 at 3 (App. Bd. 
Feb. 16, 2017)). 
Applicant’s SOR alleges he has 14 delinquent debts totaling $24,584. He said his 
delinquent debts arose during the COVID -19 pandemic due to unemployment or 
underemployment. He was recently unable to make progress on his debts because he 
was on LWOP status. These are circumstances largely beyond his control . However, 
“[e]ven if [an applicant’s] financial difficulties initially arose, in whole or in part, due to 
circumstances outside his [or her] control, the [administrative judge] could still consider 
whether [the applicant] has since acted in a reasonable manner when dealing with those 
financial difficulties.” ISCR Case No. 05 -11366 at 4 n.9 (App. Bd. Jan. 12, 2007). The 
DOHA Appeal Board has said: 
[A]n applicant must act responsibly given his or her circumstances and 
develop a reasonable plan for repayment, accompanied by concomitant 
conduct even if it may only provide for the payment of debts one at a time. 
ISCR Case No. 07 -06482 at 3 (App. Bd. May 21 , 2008). What constitutes 
responsible behavior depends on the facts of a given case and the fact that 
an applicant’s debts will not be paid off for a long time, in and of itself, may 
be of limited security concern. ISCR Case No. 09- 08462 at 4. Relevant to 
the equation is an assessment as to whether an applicant acted responsibly 
given [his or] her limited resources . See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 08 -06567 at 
3-4 (App. Bd. Oct. 29, 2009). 
ADP Case No. 23- 00547 at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 23, 2024). A component is whether he 
maintained contact with creditors and attempted to negotiate partial payments to keep 
debts current. Applicant did not describe in sufficient detail how the circumstances beyond 
his control affected his finances. He did not provide correspondence from or to most of 
the SOR creditors showing he maintained contact with them. He did not provide a detailed 
description of the changes in his income after the COVID -19 pandemic or recent ly. He 
did not prove that he acted responsibly under the circumstances. 
Applicant is credited with mitigating the SOR debt s in ¶¶ 1.f and 1.i. For the debt 
in SOR ¶ 1.f for $341, Applicant’s OPM PSI states, “Subject disputes this account stating 
that it was for an outstanding car insurance bill, however he paid the debt in full in 
07/2023. Subject could provide no additional information for this account at the time of 
12 
 
 
  
  
  
 
    
  
 
 
  
 
       
    
    
      
 
    
     
 
    
    
   
      
   
  
    
 
 
  
  
 
       
  
    
     
   
  
   
   
 
  
 
the interview.” (GE 4 at 4 of 5) Applicant’s statement asserting he was not responsible for 
this debt was reasonable. Sometimes a vehicle insurance company does not receive 
timely information about transfer of title and continues to bill for an insurance policy. Once 
the date of sale is provided, the insurance company should only charge to the date of 
sale. SOR ¶ 1.i alleges Applicant has a past -due debt with a balance of $20. Applicant 
signed up for a monthly subscription, and he said he cancelled the subscription before he 
received anything. He disputed his responsibility for the debt. The debt is not shown on 
his July 2, 2025 CBR. The $20 debt is too small to raise a security concern, and it is 
mitigated. 
The debt in SOR ¶ 1.a for $ 11,600 is Applicant’s largest debt, and it is not 
mitigated. He did not provide the emails , which he said would prove someone paid a 
substantial part of his delinquent rent debt. He did not provide any documentation from 
his landlord or a collection company that the debt was paid, settled, or otherwise resolved. 
The debt in SOR ¶ 1.n for $4,943 is Applicant’s second largest debt, and it is not 
mitigated. In his SOR response, he said, “I admit the debt. This debt was caused by 
financial hardship resulting from the COVID -19 pandemic, which impacted my ability to 
make payments. I have been working with a [CRC] to settle the account or reach a 
payment agreement. We are actively negotiating with [the creditor] to resolve this matter.” 
Applicant said, “Once I did my trade in for a newer vehicle the balance that was remaining 
on the account had been paid off by, the worth of the car paid off any remaining balance 
of the previous car.” (Tr. 82) The debt was removed from his CBR. Documentation on this 
vehicle transaction should be readily available. Applicant failed to provide documentation 
from the creditor that the debt was resolved. 
Applicant relied on information that CBR’s deleted negative debt information about 
multiple SOR accounts. The Appeal Board in ISCR Case No. 14- 03612 at 3 (App. Bd. 
Aug. 15, 2015) said: 
A credit report, in and of itself, may not be sufficient to meet an applicant’s 
burden of persuasion as to mitigation, insofar as it provides little evidence 
regarding the underlying circumstances of the debt. See, e.g., ISCR Case 
No. 08-11735 at 2 (App. Bd. Sep. 21, 2010). The fact that a debt no longer 
appears on a credit report does not establish any meaningful, independent 
evidence as to the disposition of the debt. Indeed, even if a credit report 
states that a debt has been paid, that fact alone does n ot, in and of itself, 
resolve concerns arising from the dilatory nature of an applicant’s response 
to his debts or other circumstances that detract from an applicant’s 
judgment and reliability. 
See also  ISCR Case No. 21 -00261  2-3 (App. Bd.  June 6, 2022) (“the absence of  
unsatisfied debts from an applicant’s credit  report does not  extenuate or mitigate an  
overall history of financial difficulties  or constitute evidence of financial reform or  
rehabilitation”);  ISCR Case  No. 14-05803 at  3 (App. Bd. July 7, 2016) (citing ISCR Case  
No. 14 -03612 at 3 (App.  Bd. Aug. 25, 2015)). The Fair Credit Reporting Act requires  
removal of  most negative financial items from a credit report seven years from  the first  
13 
 
 
 
     
  
  
  
        
 
     
  
     
  
    
  
 
  
   
    
     
    
 
 
    
   
 
       
   
    
date of delinquency or the debt becoming collection barred because of a state statute of  
limitations, whichever is longer.  See  Title 15 U.S.C. § 1681c.  See  Federal Trade  
Commission website,  Summary of Fair Credit Reporting Act Updates  at Section 605 , 
https://www.consumer.ftc.gov/articles/pdf-0111-fair-credit-reporting-act.pdf.  Debts may  
be dropped from a credit report upon dispute when  a creditor believes the debt is  not  
going to be paid, a creditor fails to timely respond to a CBR ’s request for information, or  
when the debt has been charged off.  There may  be other  reasons a disputed debt may  
be dropped from  a CBR  that do not  show meaningful mitigation.  
The focus in a dispute for security clearance purposes is Applicant’s “provi[sion of] 
documented proof to substantiate the basis of the dispute.” AG ¶ 20(e). A debt disputing 
company sending disputes on all negative entries on a CBR , by itself, without providing 
a reasonable basis of the disputes, such as proof of payment or a letter of satisfaction or 
resolution from a creditor, does not provide meaningful mitigation under AG ¶ 20(e). 
Applicant did not disclose any delinquent debts on his November 20, 2023 SCA. 
He claimed he was unaware of delinquent SOR debts at the time he completed his SCA. 
He was aware that he owed rent because his landlord filed a complaint in court in 2021 
seeking unpaid rent. He was not truthful when he completed his SCA and when he 
claimed he was unaware of any delinquent debts meeting the S CA criteria. Applicant 
claimed in his response to DOHA interrogatories that multiple debts were paid, and he 
was providing proof of payment. This was not true because the SOR debts he said were 
paid, were not paid. The documents he attached to the DOHA interrogatories related to 
disputes and removals of debts from CBRs. His provision of false or misleading evidence 
in his SCA and in response to DOHA interrogatories was not alleged in the SOR. In ISCR 
Case No. 03- 20327 at 4 (App. Bd. Oct. 26, 2006), the Appeal Board listed five 
circumstances in which conduct not alleged in an SOR may be considered stating: 
(a) to assess an applicant’s credibility; (b) to evaluate an applicant’s  
evidence of  extenuation,  mitigation, or changed circumstances; (c) to  
consider whether an applicant has  demonstrated successful rehabilitation;   
(d) to decide whether a particular provision of the Adjudicative Guidelines is  
applicable; or (e) to provide evidence for whole person analysis under  
Directive Section 6.3.   
Id. (citing ISCR Case  No. 02-07218 at 3 (App. Bd. Mar. 15, 2004); ISCR Case No. 00-
0633 at 3 (App.  Bd. Oct. 24,  2003)).  See also  ISCR Case No.  12-09719 at 3 (App.  Bd.  
Apr.  6, 2016).  These non-SOR allegations  (Applicant’s  false  or misleading  statements)  
will not be considered except for the five purposes listed above.  
The Appeal Board has previously stated that it is reasonable for a Judge to expect 
an applicant to present documentation corroborating actions taken to resolve debts and 
documented proof is required to substantiate dispute of a debt. ISCR Case No. 19-03757 
at 3 (App. Bd. Aug. 18, 2021) (citations omitted)). He said he paid some debts or made 
payments to some creditors. In this instance, Applicant did not provide any evidence of 
payments to his SOR creditors. His citation to identity theft and his identity theft report 
14 
 
 
  
  
 
   
    
    
  
    
   
   
  
 
      
 
       
   
    
  
   
   
     
     
   
     
     
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
      
  
  
     
   
    
were insufficient to prove any of the debts were the result of identity theft. It is noteworthy 
that he said he had accounts with several of the creditors. 
For the debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.e, 1.g, 1.h, and 1.j through 1. n, Applicant 
did not provide documentation showing: (1) proof of payments, such as checking account 
statements, photocopies of checks, or a letter from the creditor proving that he paid or 
made any payments to the creditor; (2) correspondence to or from the creditors to 
establish maintenance of contact , except for three letters about payment plans ; (3) 
correspondence to creditors showing credible debt disputes indicating he did not believe 
he was responsible for the debts and why he held such a belief; or ( 4) other credible 
evidence of progress or resolution. Applicant failed to establish mitigation under AG ¶ 
20(e) because he did not provide documented proof to substantiate the basis of any debt 
disputes related to the debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.e, 1.g, 1.h, and 1.j through 1.n. 
None of the mitigating conditions fully apply to the debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 
1.e, 1.g, 1.h, and 1.j through 1. n. “[U]ntil an applicant has a meaningful financial track 
record, it cannot be said as a matter of law that he has initiated a good-faith effort to repay 
overdue creditors or otherwise resolved debts. The phrase ‘meaningful track record’ 
necessarily includes evidence of actual debt reduction through payment on debts.” ISCR 
Case No. 22-02226 at 2 (App. Bd. Oct. 27, 2023) (citing ISCR Case No. 05- 01920 at 5 
(App. Bd. Mar. 1, 2007)). There is no current documentation establishing that Applicant 
is working to establish payment plans by making payments to address SOR ¶¶ 1.a 
through 1.e, 1.g, 1.h, and 1.j through 1. n debts. I am not confident that he will establish 
payment plans, pay, or otherwise resolve additional SOR debts, and maintain his financial 
responsibility. Financial considerations security concerns are not mitigated. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the Applicant’s 
conduct and all the circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.   
Under AG ¶ 2(c), “[t]he ultimate determination” of whether to grant a security 
clearance “must be an overall common- sense judgment based upon careful 
consideration” of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. My comments under 
Guideline F are incorporated in my whole- person analysis. Some of the factors in AG ¶ 
2(d) were addressed under that guideline but some warrant additional comment. 
15 
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
     
 
 
    
   
     
  
 
  
     
    
   
  
     
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
    
   
  
  
 
     
   
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Applicant is a 33-year-old information technology specialist who has worked for a 
government contractor for about 18 months. In 2011, he graduated from high school. He 
has a radiology certification. He has about three years of college credits. H is cohabitant 
has annual income of about $33,000, and they share household expenses. For six years 
before his employment with the government contractor, he worked for the same employer 
performing accounts payable work. He is currently on LWOP status from his government 
contractor employment. 
Applicant’s manager and facility security manager support his access to classified 
information. His manager said Applicant is competent, trustworthy, and conscientious 
about security. His facility security manager indicated his cons istent compliance with 
security protocols and trustworthiness. 
The evidence against grant of a security clearance is detailed in the financial 
considerations analysis section, supra, and this evidence is more substantial than the 
evidence of mitigation. He did not establish that he was unable to make more timely and 
significant documented progress resolving his SOR debts. The financial evidence raises 
unmitigated questions about his reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified 
information. See AG ¶ 18. 
I have carefully applied the law, as set forth in Egan, Exec. Or. 10865, the Directive, 
the AGs, and the Appeal Board’s jurisprudence, to the facts and circumstances in the 
context of the whole person. Applicant failed to mitigate financial considerations security 
concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:    
Subparagraphs 1.a  through 1.e:  
Subparagraphs  1.f  and 1.i:    
Subparagraphs 1.g,  1.h, and 1.j through 1.n:  
    AGAINST APPLICANT   
 Against Applicant  
  
For Applicant  
  Against Applicant  
Conclusion  
I c
onclude that it is not clearly consistent with the interests of national security to 
grant or continue Applicant’s national security eligibility for access to classified 
information. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Mark Harvey 
Administrative Judge 
16 