 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
                
      
 
 
 
   
  
        
    
    
                                                                                                                             
                                       
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
  
 
   
  
   
    
   
  
    
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 24-00891 
Appearances  
For Government:  Brittany C. White, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
06/17/2025 
Decision 
Curry, Marc E., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant’s federal and state income tax returns remain unfiled, and Applicant has 
submitted insufficient evidence supporting his contention that he is working with a tax 
professional to prepare them. Under these circumstances, I conclude Applicant has failed 
to mitigate the financial considerations security concerns. His application for a security 
clearance is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On September 30, 2024, the Defense Consolidated Adjudications Services (CAS)
issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under 
Guideline F, financial considerations,  explaining why it was unable to find it clearly 
consistent with the national security to grant security clearance eligibility. The CAS took 
the action under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1 
 
 
 
  
     
 
  
 
 
    
 
  
   
    
   
 
  
   
    
   
 
    
 
     
       
     
   
      
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
  
    
 
   
 
  
  
 
 
   
1992), as amended (Directive); and the National Adjudicative Guidelines (AG) effective 
for any adjudication made on or after June 8, 2017. On October 18, 2024, Applicant 
answered the SOR, admitting the allegations and requesting a decision based on the 
evidence on file rather than a hearing. On November 19, 2024, Department Counsel 
prepared a File of Relevant Material (FORM), setting forth the Government’s arguments 
against Applicant’s security clearance worthiness. The FORM contains four attachments, 
identified as Item 1 through Item 4. 
Applicant received a copy of the FORM on December 6, 2024. He was given 30 
days to file a response. He did not file a response, whereupon the case was assigned to 
me on February 14, 2025. After receiving the FORM, I admitted Items 1 through 4 into 
the record. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 29- year-old single man with no children. He has earned some 
college credits. In 2021, he earned a technical certificate. (Item 3) He has been working 
for a contractor as a software engineer since June 2022. (Item 3) 
Applicant failed to file, as required, federal and state income tax returns from 2018 
to 2021. He attributes this failure to a discrepancy with the number of W -2 forms he 
received. Specifically, the number of employers with whom he worked did not match the 
number of W-2 forms he received. (Item 4 at 7; Item 2 at 42) In approximately October 
2022, he attempted to resolve this problem by consulting a tax professional. In July 2024, 
in response to interrogatories, he stated that he was working with a tax professional, but 
did not elaborate on any progress made since 2022. (Item 2 at 42) As of the date of 
Applicant’s SOR answer, his federal and state income tax returns remain unfiled. 
Policies  
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion the Executive 
Branch has in regulating access to information pertaining to national security, 
emphasizing that “no one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy 
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security 
clearance, the administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition 
to brief introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guideli nes list 
potentially disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are required to be 
considered in evaluating an applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of 
human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the factors listed in the 
adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overall adjudicative goal is a fair, 
impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a), the entire process is a 
conscientious scrutiny of variables known as the “whole- person concept.” The 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a decision. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
   
 
    
    
 
 
 
  
      
  
 
  
 
  
    
     
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
    
   
   
  
   
 
  
   
   
    
 
      
 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 1(d) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present 
evidence to establish controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, 
the applicant is responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, 
explain, extenuate, or mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department 
Counsel. . ..” The applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable 
security decision. 
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must consider the 
totality of an applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances in light of the nine 
adjudicative process factors in AG ¶ 2(d). They are as follows: 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; 
(2) the circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; 
(3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; 
(4) the individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; 
(5) the extent to which participation is voluntary; 
(6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation and other permanent 
behavioral changes; 
(7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and 
(9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Analysis  
Guide
line  F: Financial Considerations  
The secur
ity concern under this Guideline states , “failure to live within one’s 
means, satisfy debts, and meet financial obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack 
of judgment, or unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified 
or sensitive information.” (AG ¶ 18) 
Applicant’s failure to file his federal and state income tax returns from tax years 
2018 to 2021 triggers the application of AG ¶ 19(f), “failure to file or fraudulently filing 
annual federal, state, or local income tax returns or failure to pay annual federal, state, or 
local income tax, as required.” 
. 
The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 are potentially applicable: 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
     
   
    
  
 
 
  
     
 
 
 
     
    
 
    
 
  
 
 
 
 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
under s
uch circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good judgment;  
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial  proble m were largely beyond  
the person’s control  (e.g., loss of employment, a business  downturn,  
unexpected medical emergency, a death,  divorce, or separation, clear  
victimization by  predatory  lending pract ices, or identity theft),  and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;   
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- fait h effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debt;  and  
(g) the in
dividual has made arrangements with the appropriate tax authority 
to file or pay the amount owed and is in compliance with those 
arrangements. 
Applicant still has not filed his back tax returns. Although he contends that he has 
been working with a tax professional since 2022, he provided no evidence of what steps 
the tax professional is taking to resolve the problem that is allegedly precluding Applicant 
from filing his tax returns properly. As such, while some mitigation could be applicable 
for the circumstances beyond his control that led to the initial failure to timely file and 
some additional delay caused by the issues with the discrepancy wi th the W-2 forms, it 
does not appear that Applicant has acted responsibly under the circumstances as he 
has not yet remedied this problem. The potential mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 
are not applicable. 
Whole-Person Concept  
I considered the whole-person concept factors in my analysis of the disqualifying 
and mitigating conditions, discussed above, and they do not warrant a favorable 
conclusion. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:
 AG
AIN ST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a  –  1.b :  Against Applicant  
4 
 
 
 
 
      
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
_____________________ 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant or continue Applicant’s 
eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Marc E. Curry 
Administrative Judge 
5 