 
 
 
                                                              
                           
          
           
             
 
 
    
  
       
     
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
     
       
       
      
       
      
      
 
 
          
         
          
        
        
        
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No.24-00368 
) 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Andrew Henderson, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
02/10/2025 
Decision 
CEFOLA, Richard A., Administrative Judge: 
Statement  of the Case  
On May 23, 2024 , in accordance with DoD Directive 5220.6, as amended 
(Directive), the Department of Defense issued Applicant a Statement of Reasons (SOR) 
alleging facts that raise security concerns under Guideline s F (Financial 
Considerations), H (Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse) , G (Alcohol 
Consumption), and E (Personal Conduct) . The SOR further informed Applicant that, 
based on information available to the government, DoD adjudicators could not make the 
preliminary affirmative finding it is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or 
continue Applicant’s security clearance. 
Applicant answered the SOR on June 10, 2024, and requested a hearing before 
an administrative judge. (Answer.) The case was assigned to me on November 5, 2024. 
The Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a notice of hearing on 
November 12, 2024 , scheduling the hearing for December 4, 2024 . T he hearing was 
convened as scheduled . The Government offered Exhibi ts (GXs ) 1 through 8, which 
were admitted into evidence. Applicant testified on his own behalf. The record was left 
1 
 
 
 
   
        
 
 
 
      
  
 
          
          
             
        
          
   
 
 Guideline F - Financial Considerations  
 
       
        
           
    
 
         
      
          
       
 
 
 
 
        
          
         
                
 
 
            
      
      
      
 
open until January 3, 2025, for receipt of additional documentation. Applicant offered no 
exhibits in support of his testimony. DOHA received the transcript of the hearing (TR) on 
December 16, 2024. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant admitted all the allegations in SOR. After a thorough and careful review 
of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. 
Applicant is a 31-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He is a high school 
graduate, and has been employed with the defense contractor since August of 2022. He 
is not married, and has no children. (TR at page 11 line 6 to page 12 line 16.) Applicant 
can attribute much of his financial difficulties to his past drug involvement. He spent 
about $15,000 on marijuana and cocaine during the period of his illegal drug use, (TR at 
page 23 line 6 to page 26 line 4.) 
1.a.  Applicant admits to a past -due debt to Creditor A, as the result of a motor 
vehicle repossession, in the amount of about $15,993. He avers that he is paying this 
admitted debt by way of his pay being garnished, but has offered no documentation in 
support of his averment. (TR at page 33 line 25 to page 37 line 13.) 
1.b.  Applicant admits to another past -due debt to Creditor A in the amount of 
about $1,9 69. He avers that he is paying about $100 towards this admitted debt 
“whenever . . . [he] can,” but has offered no documentation in support of his averment. 
(TR at page 37 line 14 to page 39 line 24.) 
1.c.  Applicant admits to  past-due  debt to  Creditor C in  the  amount  of  about  
$1,520. He avers that he  is paying  “roughly $100  to  $150” towards  this admitted, credit  
card debt,  but has offered  no  documentation  in support of his averment.  (TR at page  38  
line 10 to  page 38 line  3.)  
Guideline  H - Drug  Involvement  and  Substance  Misuse  & Guideline  E  - Personal  
Conduct  
2.a.  and  4.a. Applicant admits that he used and purchased marijuana during a 
ten-year period from 2011~2021. During the period of heaviest usage from 2018~2021, 
Applicant was spending about $160 a month, or a total of about $5,700 for marijuana. 
(TR at page 15 lines 10~20, at page 16 line 1 to page 21 line 6, and at page 24 line 18 
to page 26 line 3.) 
2.b.  and  4.a. Applicant admits that he used and purchased cocaine during a four -
year period from 201 8~2022. During the period, Applicant was spending about $ 200 a 
month, or a total of about $ 9,600 for cocaine. (TR at page 15 lines 21~25, and at page 
21 line 7 to page 24 line 17.) 
2 
 
 
 
     
       
           
 
 
 
      
       
              
    
 
      
       
   
 
 
      
        
      
           
 
 
          
    
           
      
         
      
      
    
 
      
    
       
         
 
 
        
         
       
      
     
 
            
         
2.c.  and  4.a. Applicant admits in September of 2018, he tested positive for both 
marijuana and cocaine. As a result of this detected drug involvement, Applicant was 
fired from his job. However, he continued to use both drugs despite being fired. (TR at 
page 15 lines 1~5.) 
Guideline G  - Alcohol Consumption  & Guideline  E  - Personal Conduct  
3.a.  and  4.a. Since 2011, Applicant admits to consuming alcohol excessively, on 
weekends, drinking as much as twelve beers and ten shots of whiskey. He last binged 
on alcohol the weekend before his hearing. (TR at page 28 line 24 to page 31 line 19, 
and at page 46 line 8 to page 48 line 2.) 
3.b.  and  4.a. In December of 2021, Applicant was arrested for Operating a 
Vehicle while Under the Influence of an Intoxicant. He no longer drives after his 
weekend binge drinking sessions. (TR at page 26 line 7 to page 28 line 23.) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s national security eligibility, the administrative 
judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief introductory 
explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially disqualifying 
conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an applicant’s 
national security eligibility. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The 
administrative judge’s over arching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial , and 
commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a ), the entire process is a conscientious 
scrutiny of a number o f variables known as the whole -person concept. The 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I 
have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical , and based on the 
evidence contained in the record. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR . Directive ¶ E3.1.15 states the “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel , and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable clearance decision.” 
A person who applies for access to classified information seeks to enter into a 
fiduciary relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
3 
 
 
 
     
             
     
        
        
        
  
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
 
 
    
     
 
 
 
 
 
              
           
    
 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or 
safeguard classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally 
permissible extrapolation as to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of 
classified information. 
Section  7  of Executive  Order (EO)  10865  provides that  adverse decisions shall  
be  “in  terms of the  national interest and  shall  in no  sense  be  a  determination  as to  the  
loyalty of the   applicant  concerned.” See  also  EO  12968, Section  3.1(b) (listing  multiple  
prerequisites for access to classified or sensitive information).    
Analysis 
Guideline F - Financial Considerations  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Financial Considerations is set 
out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to  live  within  one's means, satisfy debts, and  meet financial  
obligations may indicate  poor self-control, lack of judgment,  or  
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise  
questions about an  individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and  ability to  
protect  classified  or  sensitive information.  Financial distress can  also be  
caused  or  exacerbated  by, and  thus can  be  a  possible  indicator of,  other  
issues of  personnel security concern  such  as  excessive gambling, mental  
health  conditions, substance  misuse, or alcohol abuse  or dependence. An  
individual who  is financially overextended  is at greater risk of having  to  
engage  in  illegal  or  otherwise questionable acts  to  generate  funds.  
Affluence  that cannot be  explained  by known  sources of income  is  also a  
security concern insofar as it may result from  criminal activity, including  
espionage.  
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise sec urity concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. Three are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) inability to satisfy debts;  
(b) unwillingness to satisfy debts regardless of the ability to do so;  and  
(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations. 
Applicant has admitted to about $19,482 in past-due debts. In the past, he spent 
his monies on marijuana and cocaine, instead of addressing his debts. The evidence is 
sufficient to raise these disqualifying conditions. 
4 
 
 
 
     
    
 
 
 
 
         
 
 
       
      
      
      
         
 
 
 
        
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AG ¶ 20 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. I considered 
all of the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 including: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or occurred  
under such  circumstances that it is unlikely to  recur and  does not cast  
doubt on  the  individual's current  reliability, trustworthiness, or  good  
judgment;  
(b) the  conditions  that resulted  in the  financial problem  were largely  
beyond  the  person's control (e.g.,  loss of employment,  a  business  
downturn, unexpected  medical emergency,  a  death, divorce  or separation,  
clear victimization  by  predatory  lending  practices, or identity  theft),  and  the  
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
(c)  the  individual has received  or is receiving  financial counseling  for the  
problem  from  a  legitimate  and  credible  source,  such  as  a  non-profit  credit  
counseling  service, and  there are clear indications that the  problem  is  
being resolved or is under control;  and  
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good -faith effort to repay 
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts 
None of these mitigating conditions apply. Applicant’s financial problems are 
ongoing. He has a long history of delinquencies. Applicant avers that he is making 
monthly payments towards these admitted debts, but has offered nothing in support of 
his averments . He has not demonstrated that future financial problems are unlikely. 
Mitigation under AG ¶ 20 has not been established. Financial Considerations is found 
against Applicant. 
Guideline H - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Drug Involvement and 
Substance Misuse is set forth at AG ¶ 24: 
The  illegal use  of controlled  substances,  to  include  the  misuse  of
prescription  and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances
that  cause  physical or mental impairment  or are  used  in a  manner
inconsistent with  their  intended  purpose  can  raise  questions about an
individual's reliability and  trustworthiness, both  because  such  behavior
may lead  to  physical or psychological impairment and  because  it raises
questions about  a  person's ability or  willingness to  comply  with  laws,  rules,
and  regulations. Controlled  substance  means any  "controlled  substance"
as defined  in  21  U.S.C. 802. Substance  misuse  is the  generic term
adopted in this guideline to  describe any of the behaviors listed above.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
 
 
 
        
  
 
 
     
   
 
 
         
  
 
       
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
     
   
 
 
      
      
        
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The guideline at AG ¶ 25 contains seven conditions that could raise a security 
concern and may be disqualifying. Two conditions are established: 
(a) any substance  misuse (see above  definition);  and  
(c)  illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation, 
processing, manufacture, purchase, sale, or distribution; or possession of 
drug paraphernalia 
Appellant used marijuana and cocaine, that usage ending in December of 2021 
and in July 2022, respectively. Therefore, AG ¶ 25 (a) and (c) are established. 
The guideline at AG ¶ 26 contains four conditions that could mitigate security 
concerns. Two conditions may be applicable: 
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or happened  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur or does  not cast  doubt  
on  the  individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  judgment;  
and  
(b) the  individual acknowledges his or  her drug  involvement and  
substance  misuse, provides evidence  of actions taken  to  overcome  this  
problem, and  has established  a  pattern  of abstinence,  including,  but  not  
limited to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts;  
(2) changing  or avoiding  the  environment where drugs were  
used; and   
(3) providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all 
drug involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that 
any future involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation 
of national security eligibility. 
None of these mitigating conditions apply. Applicant’s past-drug involvement and 
substance misuse is recent, ending only in July of 2022. He also continued his drug 
involvement after testing positive in September 2018 , which resulted in termination of 
his employment. Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse is found against Applicant. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
       
     
 
 
       
         
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
      
     
 
 
Guideline G  - Alcohol Consumption  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Alcohol Consumption is set out 
in AG ¶ 21: 
Excessive alcohol consumption often  leads to  the  exercise  of questionable  
judgment or the  failure  to  control impulses,  and  can  raise  questions  about  
an individual's reliability and trustworthiness.  
The guideline at AG ¶ 22 contains seven conditions that could raise a security 
concern and may be disqualifying. Two conditions may apply: 
(a) alcohol-related  incidents away from  work, such  as driving  while  under 
the  influence,  fighting,  child  or spouse  abuse, disturbing  the  peace,  or 
other  incidents  of  concern, regardless  of the  frequency of  the  individual's 
alcohol use  or whether  the  individual has been  diagnosed  with  alcohol use  
disorder;  and  
(c) habitual or binge consumption of alcohol to the point of impaired 
judgment, regardless of whether the individual is diagnosed with alcohol 
use disorder 
Applicant had an alcohol-related incident in December of 2021, and continues to 
binge drink. These facts establish prima facie support for the foregoing disqualifying 
conditions, and shift the burden to Applicant to mitigate those concerns. 
The guideline at AG ¶ 23 contains four conditions that could mitigate security 
concerns. Three conditions may apply: 
(a) so  much  time  has  passed, or the  behavior was so  infrequent,  or it  
happened  under such  unusual circumstances that it is unlikely to  recur or  
does  not cast doubt  on  the  individual's current  reliability, trustworthiness,  
or judgment;   
(b) the  individual acknowledges  his or her pattern  of  maladaptive  alcohol  
use,  provides evidence  of actions  taken  to  overcome  this problem,  and  
has demonstrated  a  clear and  established  pattern of modified  
consumption  or abstinence  in  accordance  with  treatment  
recommendations; and  
(d) the individual has successfully completed a treatment program along 
with any required aftercare, and has demonstrated a clear and established 
pattern of modified consumption or abstinence in accordance with 
treatment recommendations. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
  
 
 
    
     
 
 
       
     
 
      
   
 
 
 
     
 
 
None of these  apply. Applicant’s alcohol consumption  is excessive. The  weekend  
before  his hearing  he  engaged  in  binge  drinking. Alcohol Consumption  is  found  against  
Applicant.  
Guideline E  - Personal Conduct  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Personal Conduct is set out in 
AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving  questionable judgment, lack of candor,  dishonesty,  or  
unwillingness to  comply with  rules and  regulations can  raise  questions  
about an  individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and  ability to  protect  
classified or sensitive information.  
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise sec urity concerns under 
AG ¶ 16. One is potentially applicable in this case: 
(c)  credible  adverse information  in several adjudicative issue  areas  that is  
not sufficient for an  adverse determination  under any other single  
guideline, but which,  when  considered  as a  whole, supports  a  whole-
person  assessment  of questionable  judgment,  untrustworthiness,  
unreliability, lack of candor, unwillingness  to  comply with  rules and  
regulations,  or other characteristics  indicating  that  the  individual may not  
properly safeguard classified or sensitive information  
Applicant has financial difficulties, drug abuse problems, and drinks alcohol 
excessively. The evidence is sufficient to raise this disqualifying condition. 
AG ¶ 17 provides several conditions that could mitigate security concerns. I 
considered all of the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 17 including: 
(c)  the  offense  is so  minor, or so  much  time  has passed, or the  behavior is 
so  infrequent, or it happened  under such  unique  circumstances that it is 
unlikely to  recur and  does  not  cast  doubt on  the  individual's reliability,  
trustworthiness, or good judgment;  
(d) the  individual has acknowledged  the  behavior and  obtained  counseling  
to  change  the  behavior or taken  other positive steps to  alleviate  the  
stressors, circumstances, or  factors that  contributed  to  untrustworthy, 
unreliable, or other inappropriate  behavior, and  such  behavior is unlikely  
to recur;  and  
(e) the individual has taken positive steps to reduce or eliminate 
vulnerability to exploitation, manipulation, or duress. 
8 
 
 
 
     
       
 
 
 
 
          
      
         
    
 
 
       
   
  
 
       
 
        
      
         
       
   
 
 
      
  
 
    
 
      
 
   
 
      
 
    
 
None of these mitigating conditions apply. Applicant’s disqualifying conditions are 
continuing as set forth elsewhere in this decision . Personal Conduct is found against 
Applicant. 
Whole-Person Concept 
Under the whole -person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the   time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of  
rehabilitation  and  other permanent  behavioral changes;  (7) the  motivation  
for the  conduct;  (8) the  potential  for pressure, coercion,  exploitation, or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood  of continuation  or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2( c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a security 
clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guidelines F, H, G , and E in my whole -person analysis. Overall, the record eviden ce 
leaves me with questions and doubts as to Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a 
security clearance . For all these reasons, I conclude App licant failed to mitigate the 
Financial Considerations , Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse, Alcohol 
Consumption, and Personal Conduct security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by ¶ E3.1.25 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline  F:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a~1.c:  Against Applicant 
Paragraph  2, Guideline  H:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 2.a~2.c:  Against Applicant 
Paragraph  3, Guideline  G: AGAINST APPLICANT 
9 
 
 
 
     
 
     
 
       
 
 
             
       
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
Subparagraphs 3.a. and 3.b:  Against Applicant 
Paragraph  4, Guideline  E: AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  2.a:  Against Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant national security eligibility 
for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information denied. 
Richard A. Cefola 
Administrative Judge 
10 