 
 
 
                                                                                                                    
          
           
             
 
 
 
  
  
  
      
    
    
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
     
   
     
   
  
 
 
     
 
  
     
   
______________ 
______________ 
DEPART
MENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
) 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00856 
) 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Lauren A. Shure, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
07/01/2025 
Decision 
MURPHY, Braden M., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant used marijuana over about two years in college, from 2021 to September 
2023. He did not disclose his illegal drug use on his October 2023 security clearance 
application, though he disclosed it and discussed it fully in a later background interview. 
Security concerns under Guideline E (personal conduct) and Guideline H (drug 
involvement and substance misuse) are mitigated. Applicant’s eligibility for access to 
classified information is granted. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on October 1, 2023, in 
connection with his employment in the defense industry . On J uly 15, 2024 , the 
Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant 
detailing security concerns under Guidelines E and H. The DOD issued the SOR under 
Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
    
 
  
 
     
   
    
  
   
    
  
     
    
 
 
  
     
    
    
 
 
    
  
 
   
 
   
  
   
(February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel 
Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the 
Security Executive Agent Directive 4, National Security Adjudicative Guidelines (AG), 
effective June 8, 2017. 
When Applicant answered the SOR on July 18, 2024, he admitted both SOR 
allegations, with explanations, and requested a decision based on the administrative 
(written) record, without a hearing, before an administrative judge from the Defense Office 
of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA). 
On August 6, 2024, Department Counsel submitted the Government’s File of 
Relevant Material (FORM), including documents identified as Items 1 through 5 . Items 1 
and 2 are the SOR and the Answer. Item 3 is Applicant’s SCA. Item 4 is an Interrogatory 
Response from Applicant , including his authentication of Item 5, the summary of his 
background interview. 
The file reflects that DOHA mailed Applicant a copy of the FORM on August 7, 
2024, and that he received it on or about August 26, 2024. He was afforded an opportunity 
to file objections and to submit material in refutation, extenuation, or mitigation, and was 
given 30 days from receipt of the FORM to do so. Applicant submitted an emailed 
response to the FORM on August 26, 2024. (FORM Response) Department Counsel did 
not object to its admission. Applicant did not note any objections to the Government’s 
proposed evidence. FORM Items 3, 4, and 5 are admitted into evidence without objection, 
as is the FORM Response. The case was forwarded to the DOHA Hearing Office for 
assignment on or about August 27, 2024, and it was assigned to me on June 10, 2025. 
Findings of Fact   
The two allegations in the SOR concern Applicant’s marijuana use (SOR ¶ 2.a) 
and his deliberate failure to disclose that marijuana use on his SCA (SOR ¶ 1.a). Applicant 
admitted both allegations and included explanations and arguments for application of 
mitigating conditions. His admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. Additional 
findings follow. 
Applicant is 2 4 years old. He has never married and he has no children. He 
graduated from high school in May 2019 and he earned his bachelor’s degree in August 
2023. In October 2023, he submitted his SCA and began working as a software engineer 
for his employer, defense contractor 1, in November 2023. (Items 3, 4, 5) 
Applicant did not disclose any illegal drug use on his October 2023 SCA, in answer 
to questions under Section 23 calling for disclosure of that information. (Item 3 at 26) In 
his December 2023 background interview, however, “when asked if [he] had used drugs 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
    
   
  
     
 
 
  
   
     
 
     
    
  
 
  
   
   
 
       
   
 
     
    
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
    
     
    
     
  
at any point in time in the past seven years, [Applicant] provided the following 
information….” (Item 5 at 2)  
Applicant disclosed that he first used marijuana in November 2021, when he 
moved from his parents’ home into a college dorm. He began using marijuana once or 
twice a month with friends and roommates at parties. He said he used marijuana until 
September 2023, and stopped using marijuana once he received the job offer from 
defense contractor 1. He said he had not used marijuana since September 2023. (Item 5 
at 2) 
Applicant also acknowledged in the interview that he deliberately falsified his SCA 
in failing to disclose his drug use. He thought he would be automatically disqualified from 
the job and he was scared. He also said that a day or two after submitting his SCA, he 
did some research online and learned that it was better to be honest during a background 
investigation because the investigators look for honesty and trustworthiness in applicants. 
He learned it is better to be honest and he hoped he would be able to disclose his drug 
use in his interview (which he did). (Item 5 at 2) 
Applicant authenticated the summary of his background interview in a July 2024 
interrogatory response. He also confirmed the timeframe and frequency of his marijuana 
use (monthly from November 2021 to September 2023). (Item 4 at 3-4) Applicant also 
stated that he no longer intended to use marijuana in the future. He disclosed that his 
roommates still use marijuana, weekly, but do so “outside, away from me.” He also said, 
“whenever I find myself nearby illegal substances, I always leave the room.” (Item 4 at 4) 
Applicant noted that he took a random, pre- employment drug test, and that he is 
potentially subject to further random tests at work. He provided a copy of his employer’s 
drug policy, which chiefly deals with “Maintaining a Drug Free Workplace.” However, it 
also notes, “Why It Matters: Using an illegal substance can negatively impact your ability 
to perform safely, be productive, and obtain or maintain a security clearance or continued 
employment.” (Item 5 at 10) 
Applicant also checked “Yes” to an interrogatory question asking that he 
acknowledge that any illegal drug involvement or misuse of prescription drugs is grounds 
for revocation of national security eligibility. (Item 4 at 5) 
In answering the SOR in July 2024, A pplicant admitted SOR ¶ 2.a regarding his 
illegal drug use. He said he had not used illegal drugs in a year, and he said, “I knew I 
had to stop after getting an interview with [ defense contractor 1].” He said he has 
disassociated himself from most people he used with, except his roommates, “who 
respect my boundaries.” He cited the paragraph above (from his interrogatory response) 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
     
 
 
    
   
     
 
       
     
  
 
  
    
   
    
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
  
  
 
   
   
as a “statement of intent to abstain” from all future illegal drug misuse, with any misuse 
being grounds for revocation of his eligibility. (Answer) 
Applicant also admitted SOR ¶ 1.a, and acknowledged falsifying his SCA, though 
noting, as before, that he disclosed it voluntarily in his interview. (Answer) He said much 
the same thing in his FORM Response, though he acknowledged that he should have 
said something before his interview and been more prompt. 
As to the illegal drug use (SOR ¶ 2.a), Applicant said in his FORM Response that 
in his circumstance, a year of abstinence is significant, especially compared to his two 
years of use. 
Policies  
It is well established that no one has a right to a security clearance. As the 
Supreme Court held in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent standard 
indicates that security determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” 484 
U.S. 518, 531 (1988). 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the  
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the  
factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s  overarching  
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial,  and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a),  
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of several variables known as  the “whole-
person concept.” The administrative judge must consider  all available, reliable information  
about  the person,  past and present,  favorable and unfavorable,  in m aking a decision.  
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. Likewise, I have not drawn inferences grounded on mere 
speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
   
   
 
 
    
 
    
   
    
   
    
     
 
  
  
  
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified inform ation. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Analysis  
Guideline H, Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse  
AG ¶ 24 expresses the security concern regarding drug involvement: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription drugs, and the use of other substances that can cause physical 
or mental impairment or are used in a manner inconsistent with their 
intended use can raise questions about an individual’s reliability and 
trustworthiness, both because such behavior may lead to physical or 
psychological impairment and because it raises questions about a person’s 
ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations. Controlled 
substance means any “controlled substance” as defined in 21 U.S.C 802. 
Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in this guideline to describe 
any of the behaviors listed above. 
The Controlled Substances Act (“CSA”) makes it illegal under Federal law to 
manufacture, possess, or distribute certain drugs, including marijuana. (Controlled 
Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. § 801, et seq. See § 844 .) All controlled substances are 
classified into five schedules, based on their accepted medical uses, their potential for 
abuse, and their psychological and physical effects on the body. §§ 811, 812. Marijuana 
is classified as a Schedule I controlled substance, § 812(c), based on its high potential 
for abuse, no accepted medical use, and no accepted safety for use in medically 
supervised treatment. § 812(b)(1). See Gonzales v. Raich, 545 U.S. 1 (2005). 
Further, in October 2014, the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) issued a 
memorandum entitled “Adherence to Federal Laws Prohibiting Marijuana Use,” (2014 DNI 
Memo) which makes clear that changes in the laws pertaining to marijuana by the various 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
   
   
      
 
  
   
 
  
   
 
   
  
 
  
   
   
 
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
    
  
  
 
 
states, territories, and the District of Columbia do not alter the existing National Security 
Adjudicative Guidelines, and that Federal law supersedes state laws on this issue: 
[C]hanges to state laws and the laws of the District of Columbia pertaining 
to marijuana use do not alter the existing National Security Adjudicative 
Guidelines. . . . An individual’s disregard of federal law pertaining to the use, 
sale, or manufacture of marijuana remains adjudicatively relevant in 
national security determinations. As always, adjudicative authorities are 
expected to evaluate claimed or developed use of, or involvement with, 
marijuana using the current adjudicative criteria. The adjudicative authority 
must determine if the use of, or involvement with, marijuana raises 
questions about the individual’s judgment, reliability, trustworthiness, and 
willingness to comply with law, rules, and regulations, including federal 
laws, when making eligibi lity decisions of persons proposed for, or 
occupying, sensitive national security positions. 
The DOHA Appeal Board has cited the 2014 DNI Memo in holding that “state laws 
allowing for the legal use of marijuana in some limited circumstances do not pre- empt 
provisions of the Industrial Security Program, and the Department of Defense is not bound 
by the status of an applicant’s conduct under state law when adjudicating that individual’s 
eligibility for access to classified information.” ISCR Case No. 14-03734 at 3-4 (App. Bd. 
Feb. 18, 2016). 
The current National Security Adjudicative Guidelines went into effect on June 8, 
2017, after the 2014 DNI memo was issued. Nevertheless, the principle continues to 
apply. 
Moreover, on December 21, 2021, then- DNI Avril D. Haynes issued a 
memorandum entitled, “Security Executive Clarifying Guidance Concerning Marijuana for 
Agencies Conducting Adjudications of Persons Proposed for Eligibility for Access to 
Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position.” (2021 DNI Memo) The 
memo incorporates the AGs (at reference B) and the 2014 DNI Memo (at reference G) 
among various other relevant federal laws, executive orders, and memoranda. I take 
administrative notice of the 2021 DNI memo here, given its relevance to this case, its 
reliance on the AGs, and its recency. 
The 2021 DNI memo specifically notes that “under policy set forth in SEAD 4's 
adjudicative guidelines, the illegal use or misuse of controlled substances can raise 
security concerns about an individual's reliability and trustworthiness to access classified 
information or to hold a sensitive position, as well as their ability or willingness to comply 
with laws, rules, and regulations.” Thus, consistent with these references, the AGs 
indicate that “disregard of federal law pertaining to marijuana remains relevant, but not 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
    
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
    
    
     
 
   
  
 
 
     
    
  
     
    
   
  
determinative, to adjudications of eligibility for access to classified information or eligibility 
to hold a sensitive position.” (2021 DNI Memo) 
I have considered the disqualifying conditions for drug involvement under AG ¶ 25, 
and the following is applicable: 
(a) any substance misuse (see above definition).  
I have considered the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 26. The following are 
potentially applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or ha
 ppened  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur  or does not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability,  trustworthiness,  or good judgment;  and  
(b) the individual acknowledges  his  or her drug involvement and substance  
misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and  
has established a pattern of abstinence, including, but not limited  to: (1)  
disassociation from drug- using associates  and contacts; (2) changing or  
avoiding the environment where drugs were used; and (3)  providing a  
signed statement of  intent to abstain from all drug involvement and  
substance misuse, acknowledging that  any future involvement is grounds  
for revocation of national security eligibility.  
As Appl
icant notes, both AG ¶¶ 26(a) and 26(b) warrant consideration. His illegal 
drug use was over a two-year period but is confined to his college years, albeit right before 
he accepted his job offer. While he had abstained for “only” a year as of August 2024, he 
also stated that he knew he needed to stop using marijuana once he accepted the job 
offer from defense contractor 1, and there is no evidence of any use after he submitted 
his SCA, in October 2023. While his illegal drug use was monthly and not exactly 
“isolated,” it is nonetheless college-era drug use. Applicant has now entered the working 
world, and his statements in his interview, SOR Response, and FORM Response reflect 
a recognition of responsibility that comes with his new status in life. 
Applicant also has recognized the importance of avoiding drug involvement, and 
has consistently expressed that, while his roommates still use mari juana, they do not do 
it around him, and if he is around it, he leaves. He has also provided and acknowledged 
his company’s drug policy and has offered (and reaffirmed) a statement of intent not to 
use marijuana in the future. He is also subject to drug testing , which will serve as a 
deterrent. While I must also consider the falsification allegation under Guideline E 
(discussed below) and its impact on mitigation here, I nonetheless conclude that both 
mitigating conditions apply. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
    
 
 
       
     
    
    
 
 
    
 
Guideline E: Personal Conduct 
AG ¶ 15 details the security concerns for personal conduct: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions about 
an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or 
sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to cooperate or provide 
truthful or candid answers during national security eligibility investigative or 
adjudicative processes. The following will normally result in an unfavorable 
national security eligibility determination, security clearance action, or 
cancellation of further processing for national security eligibility: 
(a) refusal,  or failure without reasonable cause, to undergo or cooperate  
w
ith security processing, including but not limited to meeting with a security  
investigator for subject interview, completing security forms or releases,  
cooperation with medical or  psychological evaluation,  or polygraph  
examination, if  authorized and required; and  
(b) refusal to provide full, frank,  and t ruthful  answers to lawful  questions  of  
investigators, security officials, or other official representatives in  
connection with a personnel security  or trustworthiness  determination.  
I cons
idered the following disqualifying condition under AG ¶ 16: 
(a) deliberate omission, concealment,  or falsification of relevant facts from  
any personnel  security questionnaire, personal  history  statement,  or similar  
form  used to conduct investigations, determine employment qualifications,  
award benefits or  status, determine national security eligibility or  
trustworthiness, or  award fiduciary responsibilities; and   
Applicant falsified his October 2023 SCA when he failed to disclose any 
information about his marijuana use from November 2021 to September 2023. He 
admitted doing so in his background interview and he admitted the falsification allegation 
at SOR ¶ 1.a. AG ¶ 16(a) applies. 
AG ¶ 17 sets forth the following potentially applicable mitigating condition under 
Guideline E: 
(a) the individual  made prompt,  good-faith efforts to correct the omission,  
concealment,  or falsification before being confronted with the facts.  
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
    
   
      
  
   
    
  
    
  
 
    
   
  
 
  
 
    
   
 
 
  
  
 
   
     
     
    
  
       
     
   
Review of Applicant’s authenticated summary of his December 2023 background 
interview reflects that he disclosed his illegal drug use fully and voluntarily when he was 
asked about it. He also acknowledged unequivocally that he lied on the SCA in failing to 
disclose his illegal drug use as he should have. While fear over the employment impact 
of his illegal drug use is not mitigating, it is nonetheless understandable, especially for 
someone new to the clearance application process and the working world, coming right 
out of college. While it is difficult to fully assess Applicant’s credibility when he did not 
elect a hearing, the record establishes that he came clean during his interview voluntarily, 
and he did so after learning soon after he internalized (probably for the first time) that 
candor, honesty, and trustworthiness are valued traits for clearance applicants and that it 
is better to “come clean.” While Applicant should not have lied on the SCA, he recognized 
what he did and confessed voluntarily. I conclude that AG ¶ 17(a) fully applies to mitigate 
the personal conduct security concerns arising from SOR ¶ 1.a. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. I considered the potentially 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions under all the facts and circumstances surrounding 
this case. I have incorporated my comments under Guideline s H and E in my whole-
person analysis. On balance, this is a case where, having initially done the wrong thing , 
Applicant has learned from his mistakes and done the right thing. While he should have 
been more truthful on his SCA, he also came clean voluntarily. He consistently asserted 
that he did not use illegal drugs after submitting his SCA, or at any time thereafter, and 
there is no evidence to the contrary. On balance, even though I cannot make a full 
assessment of Applicant’s demeanor and credibility as I would do in a hearing, I believe 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
      
 
 
     
    
 
   
 
    
   
   
 
     
      
 
  
  
 
                                                    
 
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
he has learned his lesson and set forth sufficient evidence in mitigation under both 
guidelines alleged to warrant granting of classified eligibility. Overall, the record evidence 
leaves me without questions or doubts as to Applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  G
 uideline E:   FO
R APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  1.a:   For Applicant 
Paragraph 2, Guideline H:    FOR APPLICANT 
Subparagraph 2.a:   For Applicant 
Conclusion  
Under all the circumstances, it is clearly consistent with the national interest to 
grant Applicant a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is 
granted. 
Braden M. Murphy 
Administrative Judge 
10 