 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                               
      
               
          
             
 
    
                                                                       
                                                                         
   
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
               
                                                             
 
 
  
 
   
     
     
 
 
   
   
    
   
 
 
  
      
  
   
     
     
   
 
__________ 
__________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 24-02056 
Appearances  
For Government: Karen Moreno-Sayles, Esq, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
11/24/2025 
Decision 
WESLEY, ROGER C. Administrative Judge 
Based upon a review of the case file, pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, 
Applicant did not mitigate financial considerations concerns. Eligibility f or access to 
classified information or to hold a sensitive position is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On February 12, 2025, t he Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
Adjudication Vetting Services (DCSA AVS) issued a statement of reasons (SOR) to 
Applicant detailing reasons why under the financial considerations guideline the DCSA 
AVS could not make the preliminary affirmative determination of eligibility for granting a 
security clearance, and recommended referral to an administrative judge to determine 
whether a security clearance should be granted, continued, denied, or revoked. The 
action was taken under Executive O rder (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classifie d 
Information within Industry (February 20, 1960); Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 
5220.6 Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program , (January 2, 
1992) (Directive); and Security Executive Agent Directive 4, establishing in Appendix A 
the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to 
Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AGs), effective June 8, 
2017. 
1 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
     
    
     
      
     
  
 
     
   
  
     
     
   
     
 
   
   
 
 
    
    
  
    
 
      
     
   
    
   
    
 
 
      
    
  
  
  
 
 
   
   
Applicant responded to the SOR on February 25, 2025, and requested that her 
case be resolved on the written record without a hearing. Applicant received the Fi le of 
Relevant Material ( FORM) on June 9, 2025 , and she elected not to respond to the 
FORM. This case was assigned to me on September 15, 2025. The Government’s case 
consisted of seven exhibits that were admitted without objection as Government 
Exhibits (GEs) 1-7). 
Summary  of Pleadings  
Under Guideline F, Applicant allegedly accumulated two delinquent debts 
exceeding $68,000. Allegedly, Applicant’s delinquent debts have not been resolved and 
remain outstanding. 
In Applicant’s response to the SOR, she admitted the allegations pertaining to 
her finances and added explanations and clarifications. She claimed her surgeon’s 
billing office was pursuing litigation with her primary and secondary insur ers who 
disagreed as to which carrier was primarily liable for her medical procedure. She 
claimed she will make payment arrangements once the insurance dispute is resolved 
between her insurance carriers. She further claimed that she will immediately resolve 
her past-due debt covered by SOR ¶ 1.b. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 30-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security 
clearance. Allegations covered in the SOR and admitted by Applicant are incorporated 
and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow. 
Background  
Applicant married in May 2017 and divorced in July 2022. (GE 3) She has one 
child (age seven) from her marriage .(GE 3) She earned a high school diploma in June 
2013. (GE 3) Applicant reported no military service. Since May 2022, Applicant has 
been employed by her employer as a manufacturing technician. (GE 3) Previously, she 
worked for other employers in various jobs. She has never held a security clearance 
and is presently sponsored by her current employer. (GEs 2-3) 
Applicant’s  Finances  
Between 2021 and 2023 , Applicant accumulated two delinquent debts (one a 
large medical debt for $67, 840 and the other a small $368 consumer debt) exceeding 
$68,000. (GEs 1-7) She attributed the medical debt to an unresolved insurance dispute 
between her primary insurance carrier and her reinsurance carrier over who bore 
primary responsibility over Applicant’s medical service submissions. (GEs 2- 7)  
Addressing the smaller $398 consumer debt, she committed to setting up a payment 
plan by August 2024. (GEs 2 and 7) 
In her personal subject interview (PSI) of June 2024, Applicant provided 
background information to the interviewing investigator from the Office of Personnel 
2 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
      
 
 
  
  
   
    
 
 
 
    
   
  
 
    
   
    
 
     
   
   
  
 
    
  
 
       
  
   
  
  
 
 
   
        
  
  
                                                                                                                             
                              
 
 
     
   
  
   
   
Management (OPM) Her furnished information covered her surgical operations in 
January 2021. Underlying the medical debt covered by SOR ¶ 1.a. (GE 7) She cited a 
disagreement between her primary and secondary insurers covering her surgical 
procedures and her inability to secure payment responsibility from either insurer. She 
told the investigator that she was subsequently advised by her treating physician that 
his office would pursue resolution of the debt with the insurance companies and initiate 
litigation proceedings if necessary to secure payment of the owed $67,840 medical 
debt. (GE 7) 
Until she recently checked her credit report, she had no knowledge that the debt 
was reflected on her report. Once she found the debt listed on her credit report, she 
assured the OPM investigator who interviewed her in June 2024 that she would make 
every effort to resolve the debt. (GE 7) She told the investigator that “her current 
financial situation is tight,” as she had financial responsibilities that includes her 
providing financial support of her three children, while maintaining a mortgage and 
managing her car payments. (GE 7) With her limited income sources, she was not able 
to make enough money to cover her other financial obligations without additional 
income. 
Asked about her listed charged- off consumer debt of $398 (covered by SOR ¶ 
1.b), Applicant acknowledged her awareness of the debt and expressed het belief that 
the debt had been previously discharged through an arranged payment plan. (GE 7) 
She committed to calling the creditor and setting up another payment plan. 
To date, Applicant has provided no documentation of payment initiatives 
regarding her SOR -listed debts. She furnished no correspondence from her retained 
attorney or insurance carriers addressing the ongoing nature of the medical dispute, 
explanation of benefits from any of her medical providers, denials of benefits, pending 
payment initiatives, or communication exchanges between the parties supporting the 
on-going payment dispute, pre- litigation mediation efforts, or litigation status. 
Corroborating evidence of payment progress is lacking. Applicant’s only proffered proof 
consists of her own statements and unsubstantiated third- party statements from her 
attorney. 
In her personal financial statement of August 2024, she reported monthly income 
of $2,664, monthly expenses of $2,724, and monthly debt payments of $1,009. (GE 4) 
Her incurred expenses and debt payments leaves her with no documented discretionary 
resources to address her unresolved debts. 
Policies  
By virtue of the jurisprudential principles recognized by the U.S. Supreme Court 
in Department of the Navy v. Egan , 484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988), “no one has a ‘right’ to a 
security clearance.” As Commander in Chief, “the President has the authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information. ” Egan. at 527. 
Eligibility for access to classified information may only be granted “upon a finding that it 
3 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
      
  
   
   
    
 
   
 
  
  
  
  
 
    
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
     
  
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
is clearly consistent with the national interest to do so. ” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. Eligibility for a 
security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the criteria contained in the 
adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, 
recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in 
conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge’ s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial , and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The AGs list guidelines to be considered by judges in the decision- making 
process covering DOHA cases. These guidelines take into account factors that could 
create a potential conflict of interest for the individual applicant, as well as 
considerations that could affect the individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified information. These AGs include conditions that could raise a security 
concern and may be disqualifying (disqualifying conditions), if any, and all of the 
conditions that could mitigate security concerns, if any. These guidelines must be 
considered before deciding whether or not a security clearance should be granted, 
continued, or denied. Although, the guidelines do not require judges to place exclusive 
reliance on the enumerated disqualifying and mitigating conditions in the guidelines in 
arriving at a decision. 
In addition to the relevant AGs, judges must take into account the pertinent 
considerations for assessing extenuation and mitigation set forth in ¶ 2(a) of the AGs, 
which are intended to assist the judges in reaching a fair and impartial, commonsense 
decision based on a careful consideration of the pertinent guidelines within the context 
of the whole person. The adjudicative process is designed to examine a sufficient period 
of an applicant’s life to enable predictive judgments to be made about whether the 
applicant is an acceptable security risk. 
When evaluating an applicant’s conduct, the relevant guidelines are to be 
considered together with the following ¶ 2(d) factor s: ( 1) the nature, extent, and 
seriousness of the conduct; (2) the circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include 
knowledgeable participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to which 
participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation and other 
permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation of the conduct; (8) the potential for 
pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the likelihood of continuation or 
recurrence. 
Viewing the issues raised and evidence as a whole, the following individual 
guidelines are pertinent herein: 
Financial Considerations  
The Concern: Failure or inability to live within one’s means, satisfy debts 
and meet financial obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of 
4 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
  
   
    
 
 
   
  
         
 
                 
 
  
 
    
    
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
        
 
     
   
     
        
   
    
   
  
         
 
 
      
   
judgment, or unwillingness to abide by rules or regulations, all of which 
can raise questions about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness and 
ability to protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can 
also be caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, 
other issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, 
mental health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or 
dependence. An individual who is financially overextended is at greater 
risk of having to engage in illegal acts or otherwise questionable acts to 
generate funds. .  .  . AG ¶ 18. 
      Burdens of Proof  
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off -duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation a bout potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be “ in terms of the national interest and shall in no 
sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the a pplicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 
10865, Feb. 20, 1960, § 7. See also Exec. Or. 12968 (Aug. 2, 1995), § 3.1. 
Initially, the  G overnment must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in  
the per sonal  or professional history of  the a pplicant that may disqualify the  a pplicant  
from being eligible for  access  to classified information. The  Government has  the burden  
of establishing controverted facts  alleged in the SOR.  See  Egan, 484 U.S.  at 531.   
“Substantial evidence”  is  “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance. ”   See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. ,  36 F.3d 375, 380 (4
th  Cir. 1994). The guidelines  
presume a nexus or  rational connection between proven conduct under any of the  
criteria listed t herein and an  applicant’s security suitability.  See  ISCR Case No.  95-0611 
at 2 (App. Bd. May 2, 1996).   
O
nce the Government establishes a disqualifying condition by substantial 
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it 
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue his [or her] security 
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01 -20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). The burden of 
disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the G overnment. See ISCR Case No. 
02-31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, 
if they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; see AG ¶ 2(b). 
Analysis  
Security concerns are raised over Applicant’s accumulation of two delinquent 
debts exceeding $68,000 that raise trust, reliability, and judgment concerns about his 
5 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
     
  
 
 
    
    
     
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
    
 
   
    
 
   
    
    
 
    
 
    
  
   
      
   
  
 
        
     
 
  
   
current and future ability to manage her finances safely and responsibly. These 
concerns are addressed below. 
Financial concerns  
Applicant’s accumulated delinquent debts warrant the application of two of the 
disqualifying conditions (DC) of the financial consideration guidelines. DC ¶¶ 19(a), 
“inability to satisfy debts,” and 19(c), “a history of not meeting financial obligations ,” 
apply to Applicant’s situation. 
Applicant’s  admitted debt delinquencies  require no independent proof to  
substantiate them.  See  Directive 5220.6 at  E3.1.1.14;  McCormick on Evidence  §  262 
(6th  ed. 2006).  Her  admitted debt delinquenc ies  are  fully documented and  raise  
judgment  issues over the management of  her  finances.  See  ISCR Case No. 03 -01059  
(App.  Bd. Sept. 24, 2004) . Credit  bureau reports are ordinary business records  
admissible as  an  exception to the Federal Rules  of  Evidence (F.R.  of Ev.) as a hearsay  
exception that doesn’t  require an authenticating witness.  See  ISCR Case No. 18-00052  
at 3 (App. Bd Jan. 18,  2019); ISCR Case No.  07-08955 at  1-2 (App.  Bd. Sep. 15, 2008)  
F
inancial stability in a person cleared to protect classified information is required 
precisely to inspire trust and confidence in the holder of a security clearance that 
entitles the person to access classified information. While the principal concern of a 
security clearance holder’s demonstrated difficulties is vulnerability to coer cion and 
influence, judgment and trust concerns are implicit in cases involving delinquent debts. 
Historically, the timing of addressing and resolving an applicant’s de bt 
delinquencies are critical to an assessment of the applicant’s trustworthiness, reliability, 
and good judgment in following rules and guidelines necessary for those seeking 
access to classified information or to holding a sensitive position. See ISCR Case No. 
14-06808 at 3 (App. Bd. Nov. 23. 2016) ; ISCR Case No. 14 -01894 at 5 (A pp. Bd. Aug. 
18, 2015); ISCR Case No. 14-00221 at 2-5 (App. Bd. June 29, 2016). 
Applicant is entitled to partial application of mitigating condition (MC) ¶ 20(b), “the 
conditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely beyond the person’s 
control (e.g., loss of employment, a business downturn, unexpected medical 
emergency, a death, divorce or separation, clear victimization by predatory lending 
practices, or identity theft), and the individual acted responsibly under the 
circumstances,” in recognition of extenuating circumstances associated with her family 
care-taking responsibilities . However, she is not able to meet the mitigation 
requirements of the second prong of MC ¶ 20(b) (“and the individual acted responsibly 
under the circumstances”). 
Without documented evidence of Applicant’s resolving her current debt 
delinquencies, other mitigating conditions are not available to her . In the past, the 
Appeal Board has consistently imposed evidentiary burdens on applicants to provide 
documentation corroborating actions taken to resolve financial problems, whether the 
issues relate to back taxes or other debts and accounts . See ISCR Case No. 19-02593 
6 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
   
  
   
   
 
       
       
      
        
        
  
 
  
     
   
   
        
 
 
 
  
            
 
 
                             
                
                                                   
 
     
      
    
 
 
 
 
   
 
__________________________ 
at 4-5 (App. Bd. Oct. 18, 2021); ISCR Case No. 19-01599 at 3 (App. Bd. Jan. 20, 2020). 
Afforded opportunities to do so, Applicant has provided insufficient information on the 
status of her debts and available financial resources to address them. 
Whole-person assessment  
Whole-person assessment of Applicant’s clearance eligibility requires 
consideration of whether her history of accumulated delinquent debts is fully compatible 
with minimum standards for holding a security clearance. While Applicant is entitled to 
credit for her work in the defense industry, her efforts are not enough at this time to 
overcome her repeated failures or inability to address her delinquent debts . Overall 
good judgment, reliability and trustworthiness are not established. 
Based on a consideration of all of the facts and circumstances considered in this 
case, it is too soon to make safe predictions that Applicant will be able to undertake 
documented good- faith efforts to mitigate the Government’s financial concerns within 
the foreseeable future. More time is needed to establish the requisite levels of stability 
with her finances to establish her overall eligibility for holding a security clearance. 
I have carefully applied the law, as set forth  in Department of Navy v.  Egan,  484 
U.S. 518 (1988) , Exec. Or. 10865, the Directive, and the AGs , to  the facts and  
circumstances in the context of the whole person. I  conclude financial considerations  
security  concerns are  not  mitigated. E ligibility for  access to classified information  is  
denied.    
Formal Findings  
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
GUIDELINE F (FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS):  AGAINST  AP
 PLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a-1.b :         Against A pplicant  
        C onclusion  
In l
ight of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Roger C. Wesley 
Administrative Judge 
7 