 
  
  
        
         
           
             
 
 
    
  
        
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          
        
 
 
  
      
        
      
       
     
     
  
          
  
 
      
            
  
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
-..:.:..w11-...-. "2. 0 0 
"' > ,.. 
~ 
"'-
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 24-00887 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances 
For Government: Rhett Petcher, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
04/11/2025 
Decision 
Curry, Marc E., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to mitigate the security concerns stemming from his drug 
involvement and substance misuse, and his personal conduct based on his falsifications 
during the investigative process. Clearance is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On October 2, 2024 , Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS) DSCA CAS issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant, detailing security concerns under Guideline H, drug 
involvement and substance misuse, and Guideline E, personal conduct. The DSCA CAS 
took the action under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding October 2, Classified 
Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 5220.6, 
Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as 
amended (Directive); and the Nat. Sec. Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility 
for Access to Classified Information (AG) effective within the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
In his answer, dated November 6, 2024, Applicant admitted the SOR allegations 
and requested a decision based on the evidence on file instead of a h earing. On 
December 11, 2024, Department Counsel prepared a file of relevant material (FORM), a 
 
 
 
 
            
           
   
 
        
            
      
       
       
  
 
         
          
      
          
   
  
         
          
      
             
 
 
 
brief with  seven  attachments supporting  the  Government’s contention  that Applicant   
should be precluded from  having  access to classified information. Applicant received the  
FORM  on  December 30, 2024,  and  he  was notified  he  had  30  days to  file a  response. On  
January 28, 2025, Applicant filed  a  written  response. The  case  was assigned  to  me  on  
March 17, 2025.  Items 1 through  7  of the FORM were admitted without objection.  
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 26 -year-old single man. He has a high school education and has 
earned some college credits. Since 2017, he has been working for a defense contractor 
as a welder. He has held a security clearance since 2018. (Reply to FORM at 1) 
Applicant purchased marijuana in edible and hash form from approximately April 
2016 to September 2023. He most enjoyed hash oil, which he used between 50 to 100 
times while hiking. (Item 4 at 10) During this time, he possessed a security clearance. In 
addition to marijuana use, Applicant used cocaine once in approximately August 2017, 
and he used hallucinogenic mushrooms on one or more occasions from approximately 
September 2017 to October 2017. (Item 1 at 2) 
One day in 2017, Applicant used marijuana with two coworkers in the parking lot 
of his employer while on lunch break. After they returned to work from lunch break, one 
of the coworkers became violently ill. The next day, one of the company managers, who 
was not Applicant’s supervisor, told him that he was going to be fired. (Item 4 at 16) 
Applicant then “walked out before [his employer] fired him.” (Item 4 at 16) 
When Applicant completed a security clearance application (SCA) in 2018, he was 
required, under Section 13, to disclose whether he had ever been fired or left a job under 
adverse circumstances. He did not disclose the adverse circumstances of his 2017 job 
loss. Instead, he wrote in, response to Section 13, that he quit the job because he was 
preparing to start school. (Item 2 at 15) 
Applicant did not admit the drug-related circumstances of this job loss until after a  
DoD investigative  agent confronted  him  during  an  interview in December 2018. (Item  4  at  
11) Before the  agent confronted  him, Applicant also denied  ever having  used  any illegal  
drugs. (Item  4  at 11)  Upon  being  confronted, he  admitted  that he  lied  about his drug  
involvement on  the  SCA  because  he  was worried  that  he  would not  be  hired. (Item  4  at  
11-13) In  his answer to the SOR, he explained  that he  falsified the SCA because he was  
“very young  and  immature at the  time  . . . and  was embarrassed  of  experimenting  with  
those  drugs . . . .” Conversely, in Applicant’s reply to  the  FORM  in 2025, he  stated  that  
he  did not disclose  his marijuana  use  on  his 2018  SCA  because  it was legal in the  state  
where he  used  it, and  he  believed  he  did  not  need  to  abstain  from  marijuana  use  in  order  
to  hold  a  security clearance. (Reply at 1) Also, in Applicant’s reply, he  contends that his  
response  to  Section  13  of the  2018  SCA was not dishonest because  he  “was not aware  
at the  time  that [his employer] fired  [him],  and  that he  decided  to  quit, rather than  be  
terminated.” (Item  2  at 15) Ultimately, Applicant told the  DoD investigator who  interviewed  
him  in  2018  that he  had  stopped  using  marijuana.  (Item  2  at  15)  As  noted  above,  Applicant  
continued  to  use  marijuana until September 2023.  
2 
 
 
 
       
             
        
       
  
 
 
 
      
    
         
       
      
        
         
       
      
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
During the 2023 security clearance investigation, Applicant disclosed his history of 
illegal drug use. (Item 3 at 25) He contends that he will never use illegal drugs again 
because he has a security clearance . (Item 4 at 6) He memorialized his intention in a 
signed statement, acknowledging that failure to abide by it will result in automatic 
revocation of his security clearance. (Reply to Form at 6)  
Policies  
The  U.S. Supreme  Court has recognized  the  substantial discretion  the  Executive  
Branch  has in regulating  access to  information  pertaining  to  national security,  
emphasizing  that  “no  one  has  a  ‘right’  to  a  security clearance.” Department  of the  Navy  
v. Egan, 484  U.S. 518, 528  (1988).  When  evaluating  an  applicant’s suitability for a  security  
clearance, the  administrative  judge  must  consider the  adjudicative  guidelines.  In  addition  
to  brief  introductory explanations for each  guideline, the  adjudicative  guidelines list  
potentially disqualifying  conditions and  mitigating  conditions, which  are  required  to  be  
considered  in evaluating  an  applicant’s eligibility for access to  classified  information.  
These  guidelines are not inflexible  rules of  law. Instead, recognizing  the  complexities of  
human  behavior,  these  guidelines  are  applied  in conjunction  with  the  factors listed  in  the  
adjudicative  process. The  administrative  judge’s overall   adjudicative  goal is a  fair,  
impartial,  and  commonsense  decision. The  administrative  judge  must  consider all  
available,  reliable information  about the  person, past and  present, favorable and  
unfavorable, in making a decision.  
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present 
evidence to establish controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, 
the applicant is responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, 
explain, extenuate, or mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department 
Counsel . . . .” The applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable 
security decision. 
Analysis  
Guideline H: Drug Involvement  and Substance Abuse  
The security concerns about drug involvement and substance abuse are set forth 
in AG ¶ 24: 
The  illegal use  of controlled  substances,  to  include  the  misuse  of  
prescription  and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances 
that  cause  physical or mental impairment  or are  used  in a  manner  
inconsistent with  their  intended  purpose  can  raise  questions about an  
individual’s reliability and  trustworthiness, both  because  such  behavior may  
3 
 
 
 
         
       
      
   
 
       
      
  
 
          
        
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
lead  to  physical or psychological impairment and  because  it raises  
questions about a  person’s ability or willingness to   comply with  laws, rules,  
and regulations.    
Applicant’s history of illegal drug use triggers the application of AG ¶ 25(a), “any 
substance abuse.” Much of Applicant’s marijuana use occurred while possessing a 
security clearance. AG 25(f), “any illegal drug use while granted access to classified 
information or holding a sensitive position,” applies. 
Applicant’s purchase of marijuana over the years triggers the application of AG ¶ 
25(c), “illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation, processing, 
manufacture, purchase, sale, or distribution; or possession of drug paraphernalia.” 
Applicant one-time use of cocaine, and his use of hallucinogenic drugs occurred 
approximately eight years ago. This use does not generate a current security concern. I 
resolve subparagraphs 1.b and 1.c in his favor. 
As for Applicant’s history of marijuana  use,  the  following  mitigating  conditions are  
potentially applicable:  
(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent,  or happened  
under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely to  recur or does  not cast  doubt  
on  the  individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good  judgment;  and   
(b) the  individual acknowledged  his or  her  drug  involvement and  substance  
misuse,  provides evidence  of actions taken  to  overcome  this problem, and  
has established  a pattern of abstinence, including, but not limited  to:  
(3) providing  a  signed  statement of intent to  abstain  from  all  
drug  involvement and substance  misuse,  acknowledging  that  
any future involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation  of  
national security eligibility.  
Applicant contends  that has not  used  marijuana  in  approximately 18  months.   This  
triggers the  potential application  of AG ¶  26(a).  Applicant’s shifting  explanations  for his  
2018  SCA falsifications  undermines his credibility such  that I cannot conclude  that he  has,  
in fact,  abstained  from  marijuana  use  for the  past 18  months.  I conclude  AG ¶  26(a) does  
not apply.   
Applicant memorialized  his  intent  not  to  resume  using  marijuana   in  a  signed,  
sworn statement.  Although  this  triggers  the  application  of  the  mitigating  condition  set  forth  
in AG ¶  26  (b)(3), “providing  a  signed  statement of intent to  abstain from  all  drug  
involvement  and  substance  misuse  . .  .,” this mitigating  condition  has minimal probative  
value,  given  Applicant’s dishonesty  about the  scope  and  circumstances surrounding  his  
marijuana  use,  and  the  fact  that he  used  it while he  had  a  security clearance.   Ultimately,  
it is too  soon  to  conclude  that Applicant’s marijuana  use  no  longer poses a  security  
concern.    
4 
 
 
 
 
   
       
     
        
     
  
 
       
           
              
      
      
           
           
        
     
     
   
    
      
    
        
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Guideline E: Personal Conduct  
Under this guideline, “conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, 
dishonesty, or unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or sensitive 
information.” (AG ¶ 15 ). In addition, “of special interest is any failure to cooperate or 
provide truthful and candid answers during national security investigative or adjudicative 
processes.” (Id.) 
Applicant failed to disclose the adverse circumstances surrounding his 2017 
departure from a job on his 2018 SCA, neglecting that it related to his use of marijuana 
on the job. On the same SCA, he failed to disclose his marijuana use history. He followed 
up this dishonesty by not disclosing any of this information to a DoD investigator during 
his 2018 DoD investigative interview until after being conf ronted. Although he disclosed 
this information on his 2023 SCA, his explanations in response to the subsequent SOR 
and in reply to the FORM were contradictory. Under these circumstances, I conclude he 
is not credible and the mitigating conditions set forth in AG ¶ 16(a) (deliberate omission, 
concealment, or falsification of relevant facts from any personnel security questionnaire, 
personal history statement, or similar form used to conduct investigations, determine 
employment qualifications, award benefits or status, determine national security eligibility 
or trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities); and AG ¶ 16(b) (deliberately 
providing false or misleading information; or concealing or omitting information, 
concerning relevant facts to an employer, investigator, security official competent medical 
or mental health professional involved in making a recommendation relevant to a national 
security eligibility determination, or other official government representative) apply without 
mitigation. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the  whole-person  concept,  the  administrative judge  must consider the  
totality of an  applicant’s conduct and   all  relevant circumstances   in light of the  nine  
adjudicative process factors in AG ¶ 2(d). They are as follows:  
(1) the  nature, extent,  and  seriousness  of  the  conduct;  (2) the  
circumstances surrounding  the  conduct,  to  include  knowledgeable  
participation;  (3) the  frequency  and  recency of the  conduct; (4) the  
individual’s age  and  maturity at the  time  of  the  conduct;(5) the  extent to  
which  participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of rehabilitation  
and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct;  
(8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the  
likelihood  of continuation or recurrence.  
Given  the  nature  and  seriousness  of the  conduct  and  its frequency, not enough  
time  has  elapsed  to  conclude  Applicant’s marijuana  use, and  subsequent  falsifications  
about his marijuana  use no longer pose  a security risk.  
5 
 
 
 
        
    
 
   
 
    
 
     
 
   
 
  
  
 
            
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_____________________ 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph  1, Guideline H:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph  1.a  –  1.b:   Against Applicant 
Subparagraph  1.c –  1.d:  For Applicant 
Paragraph  2, Guideline E:   AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 2.a  –  2.c:   Against Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national security to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Marc E. Curry 
Administrative Judge 
6 