 
 
 
                                                              
    
                       DEPARTMENT OF  DEFENSE  
    DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS       
           
             
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
     
   
 
 
      
   
  
    
  
    
   
 
    
  
 
\-\E~/. 
ft 
o .,~ n¥.~lll.; ~ 
f 
o 
t 
______________ 
______________ 
In  the  matter of:   )  
        )  
   )  ISCR Case No.  24-00001  
   )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance   )  
 
Appearances  
For G
overnment: William H. Miller, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
07/10/2025 
Decision  
OLMOS, Bryan J., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant failed to mitigate t he security concerns raised under Guideline F 
(Financial Considerations). Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On September 30, 2024, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a Statement 
of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline F. The DOD 
issued the SOR under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified 
Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 5220.6, 
Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as 
amended (Directive); and the Security Executive Agent Directive 4 (SEAD 4), National 
Security Adjudicative Guidelines (AG), effective June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR on October 8, 2024 (Answer), provided three credit 
reports as supporting document s, and requested a hearing before an administrative 
 
 
 
  
     
     
    
   
 
  
 
   
  
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
     
   
 
  
  
 
 
   
 
    
    
     
   
 
 
  
    
 
  
  
    
   
   
judge from the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA). The hearing convened 
as scheduled on May 13, 2025. At that time, Applicant was informed that only partial 
copies of her supporting documents w ere contained in the hearing file. She was 
provided an opportunity to provide a complete copy of her supporting documents after 
the hearing and elected to submit updated exhibits instead, discussed below. 
Department Counsel offered into evidence Government Exhibits (GX) 1- 7. GX 3, 
a response to interrogatories, contained medical records that were not relevant to the 
SOR and the medical records were not admitted into evidence; however, they are 
attached to the record for possible consideration by appellate authorities. GX 1 -7, 
including the relevant portions of GX 3, and Hearing Exhibits (HX) 1- 3 were admitted 
without objection. Applicant testified. The record was left open through May 30, 2025, 
and Applicant timely submitted Applicant Exhibits (AX) A -H with additional explanations. 
DOHA received the hearing transcript (Tr.) on May 20, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
In her  Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a -1.d, 1.j, 1.o -1.r, 1.u-
1.w, and 1.y. She denied SOR ¶¶  1.e-1.i, 1.k -1.n, 1.s -1.t, 1.x ,  and 1.z -1.ff. Her  
admissions  are incorporated into my findings of  fact. After a review  of the pleadings and  
evidence submitted, I  make the following additional findings  of fact.  
Applicant is 38 years old. She divorced twice and separated from her third 
husband in 2020. She currently resides with a significant other. She has three children, 
the youngest of which was born in 2022. She began attending college part -time in 2020 
and took a break from classes in 2023. She resumed her studies in late 2024 and 
estimated she needed about another year of studies to earn a bachelor’s degree. She 
has been with her current employer since about September 2020 and received her 
initial eligibility for a security clearance shortly afterward. She is currently a service 
dispatcher. (GX 1, 3; Tr. 22-28) 
Applicant experienced an extended period of financial difficulties , primarily 
relating to marital and employment difficulties. In January 2015, her employment with a 
medical office was terminated after she dropped a piece of equipment during a surgical 
procedure. She remained unemployed until November 2017 and focused on raising her 
family. She was financially supported by her second husband until he became 
unemployed for an unspecified period leading up to their divorce in 2018. She lost her 
medical insurance following the divorce. (GX 1, 3; Tr. 35-37, 80-83) 
From about 2015 into 2020, Applicant received mental health treatment for 
anxiety and depression.  She recalled high stressors relating to her marriage and 
divorce, as well as her employment circumstances. In about 2019, she experienced a 
separate medical event that required multiple hospital visits and prevented her from 
working for several months. Without insurance, she estimated she accumulated about 
2 
 
 
 
 
     
   
    
      
   
   
  
 
   
  
      
 
    
      
          
 
    
   
  
 
  
  
  
       
 
  
    
 
 
 
  
   
     
       
  
   
     
 
    
   
   
    
$13,000 in hospital bills and another $4,000 in bills  for her counseling.  (GX 1-3; Tr. 33-
38, 93-94)  
Applicant worked part time with two separate companies before working full time 
with her current employer in September 2020. Although she was aware that she had 
delinquent debt, she did not disclose any debts in her October 2020 security clearance 
application (SCA). She disclosed details of her debts during her background interview 
with a DOD investigator that occurred later that month. At that time, s he stated her 
intent to research her delinquent debts and contact creditors to resolve the accounts . 
(GX 1-3; Tr. 74-78) 
However, Applicant testified that she did not act after the interview to resolve her 
accounts because she did not feel capable of paying them . In 2020, she began living 
with the eventual father of her youngest child at her current address. While he owned 
the house, she described being responsible for all the bills and financial obligations. She 
also experienced large expenses during this period that included replacing an air 
conditioner, as well as roof and car repairs. She admitted that she neglected several 
bills, particularly her medical bills, during this time. (GX 1-3; Tr. 80-102) 
In 2022, Applicant gave birth to her third child, and she missed time from work. 
The father of her child remained unemployed during this period, and Applicant 
described experiencing further financial stressors. (GX 1-3; Tr. 76-87) 
In about May 2023, Applicant hired a debt relief company to communicate with 
creditors and settle her delinquent accounts. She enrolled about $8,657 of delinquent 
debt into a debt relief program (DRP) . These included the debts associated with SOR 
allegations ¶¶ 1.e, 1.g -1.i, 1.k and 1.l. She disclosed to the company that she had an 
income of $38,400 and agreed to make monthly payment of $226 into the program , 
which was set to be 30 months long. Since then, s he admitted that she missed 
payments at times but believed she ha d generally maintained the program. (GX 2; AX 
A; Tr. 44-48) 
Also in May 2023, Applicant responded to DOD interrogatories and 
acknowledged several of the debts reflected in the SOR. She stated she was not yet 
financially stable enough to pay her delinquent debts and described that she had 
entered a DRP. She included a financial summary reflecting she was earning a salary of 
about $50,000 annually and, after payment of her monthly expenditures, was able to 
maintain a monthly remainder of $710. Outside of the debts contained in the DRP , 
Applicant did not detail any efforts she took to resolve her remaining delinquent 
accounts. (GX 2) 
In about November 2024, the father of Applicant’s third child moved out of the 
home. Applicant detailed that his departure improved her financial situation. 
Additionally, while he continues to own the home, Applicant stated they are arranging 
for her to take ownership. (Tr. 84-87) 
3 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
     
    
 
  
     
    
      
 
  
  
 
     
    
   
 
  
     
     
 
  
 
 
    
    
  
 
  
  
   
 
  
 
   
    
      
  
The SOR alleged that Applicant had multiple delinquent accounts , totaling 
approximately $35,700. The debts are established through Applicant’s admissions and 
credit reports. The evidence concerning the specific SOR allegations is summarized 
below. (GX 2-7; AX E-G) 
SOR ¶ 1.a ($1,833) is an account with a cellphone service provider that was 
placed for collection in 2024. Applicant claimed that, at an unspecified time, she 
attempted to communicate w ith the provider directly to settle the debt. However, she 
was told to resolve the account with the collection agency. She did not contact the 
collection agency. She testified she will resolve this account after she resolves her other 
delinquent debts. (GX 7; Tr. 41-42) 
SOR ¶ 1.b ($590) is a consumer account that was placed for collection in 2024. 
Applicant enrolled the account into her DRP a week prior to the hearing and a May 2025 
DRP summary shows that the account has been settled with payment pending. (GX 7; 
AX A; Tr. 42-43, 59-65) 
SOR ¶ 1.c ($178) is an insurance account that was placed for collection in about 
2019. During her October 2020 interview, Applicant stated she would research and 
resolve this debt. However, she did not communicate with the collection agency and 
acknowledged, in her May 2023 interrogatory response, that the account had not been 
paid. At hearing, she confirmed she had not followed up with the collection agency or 
sent any payments toward this debt. (GX 3-7; Tr. 49-50, 67) 
SOR ¶ 1.d ($436) is a consumer account that was placed for collection in about 
2022. At hearing, Applicant confirmed she had not communicated with the collection 
agency or sent any payments toward this debt. (GX 3, 7; Tr. 50-51, 67) 
SOR ¶ 1.e ($1,998) is a rental contract that became delinquent in 2019. Applicant 
acknowledged the debt during her October 2020 interview and stated she would 
communicate with the creditor. Beginning in December 2022, credit reports show that 
the balance was reduced to $1,448 , but Applicant did not make any related payments. 
Instead, she enrolled the account into her DRP in 2023. As of May 2025, the account 
remains open and pending resolution through the DRP. (GX 2-7; AX A; Tr. 59-67) 
SOR ¶ 1.f ($235) is an account that was placed for collection in 2020. During her 
October 2020 interview, Applicant stated she would research and resolve the debt. In 
her Answer, she stated that the debt was enrolled in her DRP. However, Applicant 
testified that the account was not enrolled in her DRP and remained unresolved. 
(Answer; GX 2-7; Tr. 43, 69) 
SOR ¶ 1.g ($1,318) is the balance remaining on a vehicle loan after the vehicle 
was totaled in 2017. During her October 2020 interview, Applicant stated she would 
contact the creditor but took no action until enrolling the account into her DRP in 2023. 
The account has since been resolved. (GX 2-6; AX A; Tr. 59-69) 
4 
 
 
 
     
    
   
  
 
     
    
   
 
      
    
    
 
    
  
   
 
   
 
    
     
  
 
   
  
    
  
   
 
    
    
   
  
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
 
   
   
   
SOR ¶ 1.h ($1,033) is a medical debt that was placed for collection in about 
2020. Applicant enrolled the account into her DRP in 2023 and a May 2025 DRP 
summary reflects that payments are being made to the account with a reduced balance 
remaining. (GX 2-6; AX A; Tr. 60-69) 
SOR ¶¶ 1.i ($671) and 1.l ($671) reflect the same account before and after it was 
placed for collection. Applicant enrolled this account into her DRP in 2023 and it has 
since been settled and paid. (GX 4-5; AX A; Tr. 47-60) 
SOR ¶ 1.j ($239) is a consumer account that Applicant opened in 2018. She did 
not settle the account or enroll it into her DRP. As of October 2024, the account has 
been charged off. (GX 3-6; Tr. 61, 71) 
SOR ¶ 1.k ($4,187) is an account through Applicant’s college that was placed for 
collection in about 2020. In 2023, Applicant enrolled the debt into her DRP . A t an 
unspecified time, the account was settled. (GX 4-5; AX A; Tr. 51-54) 
SOR ¶¶ 1.m ($103), 1.n ($103), 1.o ($5,382), 1.p ($4,526), 1.q ($3,537), 1.r 
($2,508), 1.s ($1,433), 1.t ($1,129), 1.u ($973), 1.w ($696), 1.x ($512), 1.z ($128), 1.aa 
($80), 1.bb ($46), 1.cc ($43), 1.dd ($40), 1.ee ($40) and 1.ff ($25) are medical accounts 
that have been placed in collection. Applicant was aware that she had medical accounts 
in collection prior to completing her October 2020 SCA. However, outside of the medical 
collection associated with SOR ¶ 1.h, she never enrolled any of her remaining 
delinquent medical debt into her DRP or otherwise attempted to resolve the accounts. In 
her post -hearing submissions, she now claims that the debts are past the statute of 
limitations and are no longer enforceable. She also provided a worksheet summarizing 
her efforts to contact various medical providers after the hearing to confirm that she no 
longer has any delinquent medical accounts. (GX 2-7; AX H; Tr. 32-44) 
SOR ¶ 1.v ($760) is an account relating to Applicant’s college expenses. The 
account was first noted as delinquent in 2020. In October 2024, Applicant returned to 
college and began addressing this account. She is currently making a small payment 
toward the debt every pay period. (GX 3-4; AX C; Tr. 51-62) 
SOR ¶ 1.y ($309) is an account with an internet service provider that was placed 
for collection and initially appeared in Applicant’s 2020 credit report. In her 2023 
interrogatory response, Applicant stated she would call the provider to settle the 
account. She did not enroll the account into her DRP. She testified that she never 
contacted the provider or the collection agency and has not paid or otherwise settled 
this account. (GX 3-4; Tr. 58-59) 
Applicant testified that she continues to participate in the DRP. Per the DRP’s 
summary, it was estimated she would be debt free by October 2025, when the contract 
concludes. However, a review of Applicant’s May 2025 credit reports shows new 
5 
 
 
 
   
  
 
   
  
    
    
 
 
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
 
 
     
   
     
  
    
     
 
 
    
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
accounts that are past due including accounts placed for collection in 2024. (AX A, E-G; 
Tr. 44-46) 
During the hearing, Applicant acknowledged ongoing delinquent accounts. She 
testified that she owed about $35,000 in delinquent student loans. While her May 2025 
credit reports showed her student loans as delinquent, a recent report from the creditor 
reflects that the payments are now being deferred with a balance of $32,363. ( AX D-G; 
Tr. 97-102) 
On reflection, Applicant testified that it was difficult to maintain her finances and 
raise her family as a single parent. She acknowledged that she was aware of her debts 
since the beginning of her investigation. At times, she felt intimidated to address the 
delinquencies and avoided them. However, she believes she is past her depressive 
symptoms and in better control of her finances. She acknowledged that her current 
employer offer ed courses on financial management and budgeting. However, she did 
not enroll in the courses as she felt she was able to manage her finances herself and 
could learn how to better budget through online research. (Tr. 77-107) 
Applicant stated she earns an annual salary of about $55,000 and is able to 
maintain a budget. She maintains a retirement account with about $5,000 and has no 
other sources of income. S he has split custody of her children with their respective 
fathers and does not receive or provide child support. She noted that her finances have 
improved over time, and she has “taken proactive measures to ensure continue d 
financial stability.” (GX 2; Post-hearing Statement; Tr. 30-34, 85-88) 
Policies  
It is well established that no one has a right to a security clearance. As the 
Supreme Court held in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent standard 
indicates that security determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” 
484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988). 
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 
2(a), the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as 
the “whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, 
6 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
   
 
   
 
 
     
    
   
  
 
 
 
 
    
   
    
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
     
 
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
    
 
   
 
reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in 
making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I 
have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the 
evidence contained in the record. Likewise, I have not drawn inferences grounded on 
mere speculation or conjecture. 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation of potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Analysis  
Guideline  F, Financial Considerations  
The security concern for financial considerations is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one ’s means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. … 
The financial security concern is broader than the possibility that an individual 
might knowingly compromise classified information to raise money. It encompasses 
7 
 
 
 
    
   
  
      
 
 
   
 
 
 
    
   
     
  
 
  
   
    
   
     
    
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
concerns about an individual’s self -control, judgment, and other qualities essential to 
protecting classified information. An individual who is financially irresponsible may also 
be irresponsible, unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding classified 
information. See ISCR Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012). 
The adjudicative guideline notes several conditions that could raise security 
concerns under AG ¶ 19. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a)  i
nability to satisfy  debts; and  
(c) a history of not  m eeting financial  obligations.  
Si
nce at least 2015, Applicant has experienced a history of delinquent debts and 
financial difficulties. While some accounts have resolved, she continues to experience 
delinquent debts, and her financial concerns are ongoing. Security concerns under AG 
¶¶ 19(a) and 19(c) are applicable. 
Once delinquent debt is established, an applicant has the burden of presenting 
evidence to refute, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the security concerns arising from 
those debts. See ISCR 20-03146 at 3 (App. Bd. June 6, 2022). The fact that a debt no 
longer appears on a credit report does not establish any meaningful, independent 
evidence as to the disposition of the debt. See ISCR Case No. 14-03612 at 3 (App. Bd. 
Aug. 15, 2015). 
I have considered the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20, and the following are 
potentially applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
und
er such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast  
doubt on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good 
judgment;  
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely  
bey
ond the person's control (e.g., loss  of employment, a business  
downturn, unexpected medical  emergency,  a death, divorce or  separation,  
clear victimization by predatory lending practices,  or identity theft), and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
(c) the individual  has  received or is receiving financial counseling for the  
problem from  a legitimate and credible source, such as a non- profit credit  
counseling service,  and there are clear indications  that the problem is  
being resolved or is under control;  
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- f aith effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  and  
8 
 
 
 
 
    
 
  
    
 
      
 
  
  
 
   
 
     
    
 
     
   
 
  
  
 
     
  
 
  
 
  
    
  
 
   
  
     
 
    
    
    
  
 
   
   
(e) the individual has  a r easonable basis to  dispute the legitimacy  of the 
past-due debt  which i s  the c ause of the problem  and provides  
documented proof to  substantiate the basis of the dispute or provides  
evidence of actions to resolve the issue.  
Appl
icant’s financial difficulties began with her job loss in 2015, followed by an 
extended period of unemployment. Her financial difficulties continued as she divorced in 
2018 and underwent several hospital visits in 2019 without medical insurance. 
Mitigation under AG ¶¶ 20(a) and 20(b) must be considered. 
However, despite her awareness of her debts, Applicant took no timely action to 
resolve her delinquent accounts once she started her current employment in 2020 . 
Instead, she described feeling intimidated by the debts and avoided them. She 
experienced further financial disruption with the birth of her child in 2022 and received 
no financial support from the child’s father. 
In 2023, Applicant finally took action by enrolling a subset of her delinquent debt 
(SOR ¶¶ 1.e, 1.g-1.i, 1.k and 1.l ) into a DRP and began making monthly payments into 
the program. Just prior to the hearing, she also enrolled the debt listed in SOR ¶ 1.b. 
While some of these debts have been s ettled through the DRP, others remain 
outstanding. Still, she is credited with making a good-faith effort to repay these creditors 
through the DRP . Additionally, with her return to studies in October 2024, she began 
issuing payments toward the college debt associated with SOR ¶ 1.v. Mitigation under 
AG ¶ 20(d) is applicable to SOR ¶¶ 1.b, 1.e, 1.g-1.i, 1.k, 1.l and 1.v. 
Yet, beyond the DRP and one college account, Applicant has not made any 
meaningful attempt to resolve her remaining delinquent debts , including much of her 
medical debt. Instead of settling those accounts, in her post-hearing statement, she now 
argues that those debts are unenforceable under the statute of limitations. There is no 
indication that she has a plan to resolve any of the remaining delinquent accounts . 
Applicant’s reliance on the statute of limitations does not constitute a good-faith effort to 
resolve debts. See ISCR Case No. 14 -01231 at 3 (App. Bd. Feb. 10, 2015). Debts that 
are barred by the statute of limitations or have been removed from a credit report may 
still be considered in what they reveal about an applicant’s security worthiness. See 
ISCR Case No. 21 -00748 (App. Bd. June 2, 2022). She has not established that she is 
contesting the legitimacy of any of the debts, only their enforceability within the statute 
of limitations. AG ¶ 20(e) is not applicable. 
Since 2020, Applicant’s finances have improved, and she claims she is better 
able to maintain a budget with a monthly remainder. However, those additional funds 
have not led to further resolved accounts. Instead, her recent credit reports reflect a 
history of several late payments as well as sm all accounts that remain past due or 
placed for collection. As her debts are ongoing, it cannot be said that the behavior 
happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred under such circumstances that it 
9 
 
 
 
   
     
 
   
     
   
 
    
 
    
   
      
   
  
 
 
  
 
    
  
 
 
  
  
     
 
 
   
  
 
  
   
    
   
 
is unlikely to recur. Mitigating factors under AG ¶¶ 20(a), 20(b) and 20(d) are not 
applicable to the remaining SOR allegations. 
Additionally, Applicant declined to participate in financial management and 
budgeting courses offered by her employer, and she has not established that any of the 
information she received from the DRP constituted financial counseling. Mitigation 
under AG ¶ 20(c) is not applicable. 
While Applicant has made progress on resolving a subset of her delinquent 
debts, this effort falls short of establishing a meaningful track record of debt reduction, 
particularly considering recent accounts that were past due or remain in collection. I am 
unable to find that she acted responsibly under the circumstances or that she made a 
good-faith effort to pay her debts. H er financial issues continue to cast doubt on h er 
current reliability, trustworthiness, and judgment. None of the mitigating conditions fully 
resolve the security concerns. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent  to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of  
rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation  
for the conduct; (8) the potential for  pressure, coercion, exploitation,  or  
duress;  and (9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
the facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments 
under Guideline F in my whole-person analysis. 
Applicant’s circumstances have improved since she lost her job in 2015, divorced 
in 2018 and experienced a medical situation in 2019. She has been with her current 
employer since 2020 in a full -time position and is earning a steady income. She has 
made progress in resolving a subset of her delinquent debt. However, she has allowed 
several delinquent accounts to remain unresolved for years and continues to experience 
10 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
      
   
     
    
   
    
    
   
    
   
   
    
   
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
financial accounts that are past due or placed for collection. She has not yet established 
a sufficient track record of responsible action to mitigate the financial considerations 
security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  Guideline F:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph 1.a:  Against Applicant 
Subparagraph 1.b:  For Applicant 
Subparagraph 1.c-1.d:  Against Applicant 
Subparagraph 1.e:  For Applicant 
Subparagraph 1.f:  Against Applicant 
Subparagraph 1.g-1.i:  For Applicant 
Subparagraph 1.j:  Against Applicant 
Subparagraph 1.k-1.l:  For Applicant 
Subparagraph 1.m-1.u:  Against Applicant 
Subparagraph 1.v:  For Applicant 
Subparagraph 1.w-1.ff:  Against Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances, it is not clearly consistent with the national 
interest to grant Applicant a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified 
information is denied. 
Bryan J. Olmos 
Administrative Judge 
11 