 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                               
    DEPARTMENT  OF DEFENSE  
     DEFENSE  OFFICE OF HEARINGS  AND APPEALS         
          
      
       
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
       
In  the matter  of:  )  
                                                                      )  
                                                            )          ISCR Case  No. 24-01563  
  )  
Applicant  for Security Clearance  )  
Appearances  
For Government: Lauren Shure, Esq, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
07/01/2025 
    
   Decision  
           
                                                  
 
 
  
 
   
     
     
 
 
    
   
     
    
  
 
  
    
   
   
  
    
       
 
__________ 
__________ 
WE
SLEY, ROGER C. Administrative Judge 
Based upon a review of the case file, pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, 
Applicant did not mitigate financial considerations concerns. Eligibility f or access to 
classified information or to hold a sensitive position is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On November 5, 2024, he Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS) issued a statement of reasons (SOR) 
to Applicant detailing reasons why under the financial considerations guideline the 
DCSA CAS could not mak e the preliminary affirmative determination of eligibility for 
granting a security clearance, and recommended referral to an administrative judge to 
determine whether a security clearance should be granted, continued, denied, or 
revoked. The action was taken under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified I nformation within Industry (February 20, 1960); Department of Defense 
(DoD) Directive 5220.6 Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
Program, (January 2, 1992) ( Directive); and Security Executive Agent Directive 4, 
establishing in Appendix A the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for 
Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a 
Sensitive Position (AGs), effective June 8, 2017. 
1 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
    
   
      
        
   
  
 
     
   
  
      
   
  
 
   
   
 
 
    
    
  
    
 
     
     
   
   
 
   
    
     
    
 
 
      
     
   
 
    
   
     
   
Applicant responded to the SOR on December 6, 2024, and requested that his 
case be resolved on the written record without a hearing. Applicant received the Fi le of 
Relevant Material ( FORM) on February18, 2025, and he elected not to respond to the 
FORM. This case was assigned to me on June 5, 2025. The Government’s case 
consisted of 10 exhibits that were admitted without objection as Government Exhibits 
(GEs) 1-10. 
Summary  of Pleadings  
Under Guideline F, Applicant allegedly accumulated four delinquent consumer 
debts exceeding $36,000 . Allegedly, Applicant’s delinquent debts have not been 
resolved and remain outstanding. 
In Applicant’s response to the SOR, he admitted all of the allegations pertaining 
to his finances and added explanations and clarifications. He claimed lengthy periods of 
holding a security clearance without any raised issues. He also claimed that none of his 
debts pertain to gambling, substance abuse, or questionable lifestyles. He further 
claimed the absence of any legal issues in his record. And, he claimed that his family 
interests (and not his wealth) were the driving priorities of his life. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 66-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security 
clearance. Allegations covered in the SOR and admitted by Applicant are incorporated 
and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow. 
Background  
Applicant married in September 1987 and has t hree children from this marriage. 
(Item 3) He earned a high school diploma in June 1977. ( GE 10) H e enlisted in the 
Marine Corps in June 1977 and served four years of active duty. ( GE 3) He received an 
honorable discharge in June 1981. 
Since July 2018, Applicant has been employed by his employer as an engineer. 
(GE 3) Previously, he worked for other employers in various technical positions. Since 
2004, he has held security clearances at different levels and for various periods during 
his professional career. (GE 10) 
Applicant’s  Finances  
Between 2021 and 2023, Applicant accumulated four delinquent consumer 
accounts exceeding $36,000. He attributed his debts to unstable income from his 
various jobs, his wife’s cancer treatment, unexpected medical expenses, and his three 
adult children moving home. (GEs 2 and 10) He provides room and board, food, 
healthcare, cell phones , and car insurance for each of his three children, and also 
covers any additional expenses of his children as they may arise. (GE 10) While he has 
paid several of his non-SOR delinquent debts, he has no documented plan for 
addressing the debts covered by the SOR. 
2 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
   
   
   
 
   
 
 
                                                                                                                             
                              
 
 
     
   
  
   
   
 
   
    
 
  
  
  
    
 
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
   
  
 
 
Applicant’s compiled credit reports between 2019 and 2024 reveal a displayed 
pattern of accruing multiple delinquent debts and acquiescing in their falling off his credit 
reports without addressing them. (GEs 4- 7) While his responses contain recurring 
commitments to address his delinquent accounts, he has provided little tangible 
evidence of changes in his historical practice of disregarding his financial 
responsibilities. 
According to Applicant’s personal financial statement,  he nets  monthly income of  
$11,600, incurs  monthly expenses of $5,000, and  accrues monthly debts of  $1,560. (GE  
10) This leaves him with a reported monthly remainder of $5,040. Because he provided  
no financial  information as to  how  his monthly remainder is  being utilized,  it remains  
unclear as  to how  he employs his  available disposable funds.  
Policies  
By virtue of the jurisprudential principles recognized by the U.S. Supreme Court 
in Department of the Navy v. Egan , 484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988), “no one has a ‘right’ to a 
security clearance.” As Commander in Chief, “the President has the authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information. ” Egan. at 527. 
Eligibility for access to classified information may only be granted “upon a finding that it 
is clearly consistent with the national interest to do so. ” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the a pplicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are 
applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial , and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The AGs list guidelines to be considered by judges in the decision- making 
process covering DOHA cases. These guidelines take into account factors that could 
create a potential conflict of interest for the individual applicant, as well as 
considerations that could affect the individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified information. 
These AGs include conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying (disqualifying conditions), if any, and all of the conditions that could 
mitigate security concerns, if any. These guidelines must be considered before deciding 
whether or not a security clearance should be granted, continued, or denied. Although, 
the guidelines do not require judges to place exclusive reliance on the enumerated 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in the guidelines in arriving at a decision. 
3 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
     
  
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
    
 
 
   
  
         
 
                    
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
    
  
 
In addition to the relevant AGs, judges must take into account the pertinent 
considerations for assessing extenuation and mitigation set forth in ¶ 2(a) of the AGs, 
which are intended to assist the judges in reaching a fair and impartial, commonsense 
decision based on a careful consideration of the pertinent guidelines within the context 
of the whole person. The adjudicative process is designed to examine a sufficient period 
of an applicant’s life to enable predictive judgments to be made about whether the 
applicant is an acceptable security risk. 
When evaluating an applicant’s conduct, the relevant guidelines are to be 
considered together with the following ¶ 2(d) factor s: ( 1) the nature, extent, and 
seriousness of the conduct; (2) the circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include 
knowledgeable participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to which 
participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation and other 
permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation of the conduct; (8) the potential for 
pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the likelihood of continuation or 
recurrence. 
Viewing the issues raised and evidence as a whole, the following individual 
guidelines are pertinent herein: 
Financial Considerations  
The Concern: Failure or inability to live within one’s means, satisfy debts 
and meet financial obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of 
judgment, or unwillingness to abide by rules or regulations, all of which 
can raise questions about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness and 
ability to protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can 
also be caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of 
other issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, 
mental health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or 
dependence. An individual who is financially overextended is at greater 
risk of having to engage in illegal acts or otherwise questionable acts to 
generate funds. .  .  . AG ¶ 18. 
   Burdens of Proof  
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. 
Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk the a pplicant 
may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. Such decisions 
entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation about potential, rather than 
actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
4 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
  
    
        
 
     
   
     
        
   
    
   
  
         
 
 
      
   
     
  
 
 
    
   
  
       
 
 
 
  
 
 
Clearance decisions must be “ in terms of the national interest and shall in no 
sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the a pplicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 
10865, Feb. 20, 1960, § 7. See also Exec. Or. 12968 (Aug. 2, 1995), § 3.1. 
Initially, the  G overnment must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in  
the per sonal  or professional history of  the a pplicant that may disqualify the  a pplicant  
from being eligible for  access  to classified information. The  Government has  the burden  
of establishing controverted facts  alleged in the SOR.  See  Egan, 484 U.S.  at 531.   
“Substantial evidence”  is  “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance. ”   See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. ,  36 F.3d 375, 380 (4 th  Cir. 1994). The guidelines  
presume a nexus or  rational connection between proven conduct under any of the  
criteria listed t herein and an  applicant’s security suitability.  See  ISCR Case No.  95-0611 
at 2 (App. Bd. May 2, 1996).   
O
nce the Government establishes a disqualifying condition by substantial 
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it 
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue his [or her] security 
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01 -20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). The burden of 
disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the G overnment. See ISCR Case No. 
02-31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, 
if they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; see AG ¶ 2(b). 
Analysis  
Security concerns are raised over Applicant’s accumulation of four delinquent 
debts exceeding $36,000 that raise trust, reliability, and judgment concerns about his 
current and future ability to manage his finances safely and responsibly. These 
concerns are addressed below. 
Financial concerns  
Applicant’s accumulated delinquent de bts warrant the application of three of the 
disqualifying conditions (DC) of the financial consideration guidelines. DC ¶¶ 19(a), 
“inability to satisfy debts”; 19(b), “unwillingness to satisfy debts regardless of the ability 
to do so”; and 19(c), “a history of not meeting financial obligations.” 
Applicant’s  admitted debt delinquencies  require no independent proof to  
substantiate them.  See  Directive 5220.6 at  E3.1.1.14;  McCormick on Evidence  §  262 
(6th  ed. 2006).  His  admitted  debt delinquenc ies  are  fully documented and  raise   
judgment issues  over  the management of  his  finances.  See  ISCR Case  No. 03-01059 
(App.  Bd. Sept.  24, 2004).  
F
inancial stability in a person cleared to protect classified information is required 
precisely to inspire trust and confidence in the holder of a security clearance that 
entitles the person to access classified information. While the principal concern of a 
5 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
    
 
   
    
 
   
    
    
 
    
 
    
  
 
  
      
  
 
       
    
    
  
     
      
    
     
  
   
 
       
       
      
          
       
   
 
  
     
   
   
        
 
security clearance holder’s demonstrated difficulties is vulnerability to coer cion and 
influence, judgment and trust concerns are implicit in cases involving delinquent debts. 
Historically, the timing of addressing and resolving an applicant’s de bt 
delinquencies are critical to an assessment of the applicant’s trustworthiness, reliability, 
and good judgment in following rules and guidelines necessary for those seeking 
access to classified information or to holding a sensitive position. See ISCR Case No. 
14-06808 at 3 (App. Bd. Nov. 23. 2016) ; ISCR Case No. 14 -01894 at 5 (A pp. Bd. Aug. 
18, 2015); ISCR Case No. 14-00221 at 2-5 (App. Bd. June 29, 2016). 
Applicant is entitled to partial application of mitigating condition (MC) ¶ 20(b), “the 
conditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely beyond the person’s 
control (e.g., loss of employment, a business downturn, unexpected medical 
emergency, a death, divorce or separation, clear victimization by predatory lending 
practices, or identity theft), and the individual acted responsibly under the 
circumstances,” in recognition of extenuating circumstances associated with his family 
care-taking responsibilities. However, he is not able to meet the mitigation requirements 
of the second prong of MC ¶ 20(b) (“and the individual acted responsibly under the 
circumstances”). 
Without documented evidence of Applicant’s resolving his current debt 
delinquencies, other potentially available mitigating conditions are not available to him. 
In the past, the Appeal Board has consistently imposed evidentiary burdens on 
applicants to provide documentation corroborating actions taken to resolve financial 
problems, whether the issues relate to back taxes or other debts and accounts . See 
ISCR Case No. 19 -02593 at 4-5 (App. Bd. Oct. 18, 2021); ISCR Case No. 19- 01599 at 
3 (App. Bd. Jan. 20, 2020) . Afforded opportunities to do so, Applicant has provided 
insufficient information on the status of his debts and available financial resources to 
address them . 
Whole-person assessment  
Whole-person assessment of Applicant’s clearance eligibility requires 
consideration of whether his history of accumulated delinquent debts is fully compatible 
with minimum standards for holding a security clearance. While Applicant is entitled to 
credit for his work in the defense industry, his efforts are not enough at this time to 
overcome his repeated failures or inability to address his delinquent debts. Overall good 
judgment, reliability and trustworthiness are not established. 
Based on a consideration of all of the facts and circumstances considered in this 
case, it is too soon to make safe predictions that Applicant will be able to undertake 
documented good- faith efforts to mitigate the Government’s financial concerns within 
the foreseeable future. More time is needed to establish the requisite levels of stability 
with his finances to establish his overall eligibility for holding a security clearance. 
I have carefully applied the law, as set forth  in Department of Navy v.  Egan,  484 
U.S. 518 (1988) , Exec. Or. 10865, the Directive, and the AGs , to  the facts and  
6 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
  
      
   
 
 
  
            
 
  
 
                                    
                
                                                          
 
     
      
    
 
 
 
 
   
 
__________________________ 
circumstances in the context of the whole person. I conclude financial considerations 
security concerns are not mitigated. E ligibility for access to classified information is 
denied. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
GUIDELINE F (FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS):  
AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a-1.d:    Agai
nst Applicant 
 Conclusion  
I
n light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Roger C. Wesley 
Administrative Judge 
7 