 
  
                                                              
                             
          
           
         
 
 
 
    
  
       
     
  
   
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
    
  
  
  
    
     
   
  
    
   
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 25-00067 
) 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Aubrey M. De Angelis, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
09/09/2025 
Decision 
Lokey Anderson, Darlene D., Administrative Judge: 
Statement of the Case  
On June 30, 2016; December 14, 2022; and September 10, 2024, Applicant 
submitted security clearance applications (e- QIPs).  On March 27, 2025, the Defense 
Counterintelligence and Security Agency Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA 
CAS) issued Applicant a Statement of Reasons (SOR), detailing security concerns 
under Guideline H, Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse; and Guideline E, 
Personal Conduct. The action was taken under Executive Order (EO) 10865, 
Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; 
DoD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the Adjudicative Guidelines 
(AG) effective within the DoD after June 8, 2017. 
 
 
 
      
    
     
      
    
       
  
 
   
 
 
 
   
    
      
 
  
 
   
  
   
 
  
    
      
  
 
 
          
 
    
      
   
    
  
    
  
     
      
 
  
    
   
   
Applicant answered the SOR on May 21, 2025, and requested a hearing before 
an administrative judge.  The case was assigned to me on June 30, 2025.  The Defense 
Office of Hearings and Appeals issued a notice of hearing on July 1, 2025, and the 
hearing was convened as scheduled on August 13, 2025. At the hearing, the 
Government offered five exhibits, referred to as Government Exhibits 1 through 5, which 
were admitted without objection. The Applicant offered no exhibits. He testified on his 
own behalf.  The record remained open until September 3, 2025, to allow Applicant to 
submit additional supporting documentation.  Applicant had no submission.  D OHA 
received the transcript of the hearing (Tr.) on August 25, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 31 years old.  He is not married and has no children.  He holds a 
Bachelor’s degree.  He is employed by a defense contractor as an Electrical Engineer. 
He is seeking to retain a security clearance in connection with his employment. 
The SOR alleges that from approximately 2012 to August 2024, Applicant used 
marijuana on numerous occasions, and at times while employed in a sensitive position, 
one which required a security clearance. He admitted allegation 1.a., and denied 
allegations 1.b., 1.c., and 1.d., set forth in the SOR.  Applicant has been working for his 
current employer since August 2024. 
Applicant has worked in the defense industry and has held a security clearance 
since the age of 21. He has a history of marijuana use that began in 2012 that has 
continued off and on until 2024. At times, he has used marijuana while employed in a 
sensitive position.  He first used marijuana in 2012, while in college in New York when 
marijuana use was illegal in that state at the time.  He was in a fraternity and attended 
parties where marijuana was passed around at times.  While in college, from 2012 to 
2016, he stated that he used marijuana about two or three times.  (Tr. pp. 19-20.) 
Before completing his undergraduate studies, Applicant applied to enter the 
military’s Officer’s Candidate Training School (OCS). During the application process the 
recruiter asked him if he had ever used cannabis.  Applicant told him that he had used it 
a couple of times at a party.  The recruiter then said, okay so you’ve never used it. 
Applicant stated that is why he responded, “NO,” to the question on the security 
clearance application. After being accepted into the Officer’s Training program, but 
before he signed the contract, he was told by a mentor that his grades were too high to 
go into the military. So, he chose not to join the military, and started looking for a 
civilian position as an engineer working for a defense contractor.  (Tr. pp. 22-23.) 
Applicant began working during his senior year as an intern for a defense 
contractor that became a full -time position after graduation. Applicant completed a 
security clearance application dated June 30, 2016.  In response to Section 23, of the 
application, which asks him if in the last seven years he has used any controlled 
2 
 
 
 
  
 
      
  
     
   
     
  
  
  
   
  
  
        
 
     
 
   
   
 
   
    
    
       
 
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
      
  
  
   
 
    
 
 
    
 
    
 
substances?, he answered, “NO.”  (Government Exhibit 3.)  This was a false answer. 
Applicant had used marijuana while in college between 2012 and 2016 on several 
occasions at parties. Applicant acknowledged that there was a zero- tolerance drug 
policy at the company, and he stated that he did not use any marijuana while employed 
there. (Tr. p. 24.) 
In about September 2017, Applicant moved from New York to California. 
Applicant started working for another defense contractor and his security clearance 
transferred over to that job.  He stated that he may have used marijuana once or twice 
until the Covid pandemic.  Then in late 2019 or early 2020, he was accepted into a 
Doctorate program at a university in California and he used marijuana regularly, a 
couple of times a week, to keep up his stamina.  This regular use continued from about 
August 2020 to May 2022.  He found that the marijuana use helped him with his studies. 
Applicant was also struggling with horrible migraines and instead of using ibuprofen, he 
used marijuana.  (Tr. p. 28.)  During this period, he purchased it from a dispensary and 
it was legal in California.  There were also times he used it socially with friends, 
including with his girlfriend, and during outings with friends.  He enjoyed marijuana. 
On December 14, 2022, as part of his security clearance update, Applicant 
completed another security clearance application. Section 23, again asked, in the last 
seven years have you illegally used any drugs or controlled substances?  Again, 
Applicant answered, “NO.”  (Government Exhibit 2.)  He knew it was legal in California 
under state law, but that it was still illegal under Federal law.  He stated that he was 
confused about whether it was legal for him to use, but he did not contact any one at his 
company for guidance.  (Tr. p. 33.) 
In June 2023, Applicant moved with his girlfriend to Washington State from 
California.  There he purchased marijuana at dispensaries and used it a few times a 
week.  In early 2024, he left the Doctorate program and stopped using marijuana at 
about the same time.  Applicant stated that the last time he used marijuana while 
employed in a sensitive position while holding a security clearance was in May 2024. 
(Tr. p. 48.)  
In June 2024, Applicant moved to Colorado. While attending a concert, he was 
offered a marijuana joint, and smoked it a couple of times.  He believes the joint had a 
THC content of 20 percent to 30 percent. The marijuana made him feel good and 
helped him enjoy the music.  (Government Exhibit 4.) 
Applicant stated that he last used marijuana in August 2024, just before he 
started working for his current employer.  (Tr. p. 48.)  He stated that he has not used it 
because it was used to supplement an extreme amount of workload and since he is no 
longer in the doctorate program, he does not need to use it.  (Tr. p. 38.) 
On September 10, 2024, Applicant completed a third security clearance 
application.  Section 23, again asked, in the last seven years have you illegally used 
3 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
       
 
 
 
  
 
   
     
   
    
 
  
 
    
  
 
      
   
 
 
   
      
    
   
  
 
   
 
 
   
any drugs or controlled substances?  Again, for the third time, Applicant was not truthful 
in answering the question and answered, “NO.”  (Government Exhibit 1.)  Applicant 
explained that about three or four times a month he is around people who are using 
marijuana, but he does not use it.  He stated that going forward he will not use it unless 
the Federal law changes and allows Federal workers to use it.  (Tr. p. 40.) 
In a sworn statement dated October  23,  2024, during his subject interview,   
Applicant was confronted about  having a security clearance and using marijuana.  He  
stated that he did not report  this to his company or  to anyone at work.  Applicant stated 
that  he did not  believe that he needed to report any of his  marijuana use since it was  
legal in the states where he used it.  He also believed that his work environment was  a  
“Don’t ask,  don’t tell situation,” and he did not see a problem with it since others also  
used marijuana.  He stated that he was  not informed that he was not  allowed to use  
marijuana while holding a security clearance and did not know that it was against  
Federal law.  (Government Exhibit 4.)  However,  Applicant  acknowledged receiv ing  
annual security briefings since he started working in the defense industry.   (Tr. pp. 65 -
67.)  
Applicant stated that his performance reviews all show that he consistently 
exceeds expectations, and he has never received a security violation.  He is physically 
and mentally healthy, and he loves his family.  He also has family and friends in the 
military.  (Tr. p. 41.)  He further stated that he has hobbies, such as rock climbing, white 
water kayaking, he plays the guitar, plays chess, and has two dogs to take care of.  He 
is busy with other things and no longer uses marijuana.  (Tr. p. 50.) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in 
conjunction with the factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The 
administrative judge’s over arching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and 
commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a), the entire process is a conscientious 
scrutiny of a number of variables known as the whole- person concept. The 
administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
4 
 
 
 
      
  
  
 
      
      
    
    
    
  
 
      
    
    
    
   
      
    
  
  
 
   
  
     
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
    
   
   
  
  
 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I 
have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical , and based on the 
evidence contained in the record. 
Directive ¶ E3.1.14, requires the Government to present evidence t hat 
establishes controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the 
“applicant is responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, 
extenuate, or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel, 
and has the ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable clearance 
decision.” 
A person who applies for access to classified information seeks to enter into a 
fiduciary relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or 
safeguard classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally 
permissible extrapolation as to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of 
classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the 
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites 
for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline H: Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Drug Involvement and 
Substance Misuse is set forth at AG ¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual's reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior 
may lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person's ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any "controlled substance" 
as defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term 
adopted in this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
5 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
    
    
    
   
 
 
   
The guideline at AG ¶ 25 contains three conditions  that could raise a security 
concern and may be disqualifying: 
(a) any substance misuse (see above definition);    
  
(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation,  
proc
essing, manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession of  
drug paraphernalia; and   
(f) any illegal  drug use while granted access to classified information or  
holding a sensitive position.  
The gui
deline at AG ¶ 26 contains conditions that could mitigate security 
concerns. None of the conditions are applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or ha ppened  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur  or does not cast doubt  
on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;  
and  
(b) the individual acknowledges  his  or her drug involvement  and  
substance misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this  
problem,  and has  established a pattern of  abstinence, including,  but not  
limited to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-usi ng associates and contacts;   
(2) changing or avoiding the environment  wher e drugs were  
used; and  
(3) providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all  
drug i
nvolvement  and  substance misuse, acknowledging that  
any future involvement or  misuse is  grounds for revocation  
of national security  eligibility.  
Appli
cant used marijuana intermittently and sporadically throughout the years 
from 2012 through June 2024, at times while holding a security clearance and while 
employed in a sensitive position.  He knew or should have known that marijuana use 
and any illegal drugs use is prohibited under Federal law and against Department of 
Defense regulations. Given the fact that he is not new to the defense industry and has 
held a security clearance for over ten years, and has received annual security briefings, 
he is expected to know and abide by DoD rules and regulations. Furthermore, his 
illegal drug use while possessing a security clearance and while employed in a sensitive 
position shows immaturity, irresponsibility, and unreliability.  Even though he stated that 
he has now quit using marijuana under the circumstances, there is no strong evidence 
6 
 
 
 
      
   
 
     
 
 
      
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
    
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
to show that his word is truthful. His conduct shows immaturity and raises questions 
about his ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations.  He has not 
shown the requisite good judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness necessary to be 
eligible for access to classified information. 
Guideline E- Personal Conduct  
The security concern for Personal Conduct is set out in AG ¶ 15:   
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to 
cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 16. Three are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) deliberate omission, concealment,  or f
 alsification of relevant facts from  
any  personnel security questionnaire, personal history statement, or  
similar form  used to conduct investigations, determine employment  
qualifications, award benefits or status, determine national security  
eligibility or trustworthiness,  or award fiduciary responsibilities; and  
(d) credible adverse information that is not explicitly covered under any  
other  gui
deline and may not be sufficient by itself for an adverse  
determination,  but which, when combined with all available information,  
supports a whole- person assessment  of questionable judgment,  
untrustworthiness,  unreliability, lack of candor, unwillingness to comply  
with rules and regulations,  or other characteristics indicating that the  
individual  may not properly safeguard classified or sensitive information.   
This includes, but is not limited to, consideration of:  
(3) a pattern of  dis honesty or rule violations;  and  
(e) personal conduct,  or c oncealment of information about  one’s conduct,  
that creates a vulnerability to exploitation, or duress by  a foreign  
intelligence entity or  other individual or  group.  Such conduct includes:  
(1) engaging in activities which, if known, could affect the person’s   
personal, professional, or community standing.  
7 
 
 
 
   
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
    
   
   
  
    
 
 
   
    
       
    
  
There are conditions mitigating security concerns under AG ¶ 17.  However, 
none of them are applicable here: 
(a)  the individual  mad e prompt, good-faith efforts to correct  the omission,  
concealment,  or  falsification before being confronted with the facts;   
(b)  the refusal or failure to cooperate, omission,  or c oncealment was  
caused or significantly contributed to by advice of legal counsel or of a  
person with professional responsibilities for advising or instructing the  
individual specifically  concerning security processes.  Upon being made  
aware of the requirement to cooperate or provide the information,  the  
individual cooperated fully and truthfully;   
(c) the offense is so minor, or so much time has passed, or the behavior is  
so i
nfrequent or it happened under such unique circumstances that it is  
unlikely to recur  and  does not cast doubt  on the individual’s reliability,  
trustworthiness, or  good judgment;  
(d) the individual has acknowledged the behavior and obtained counseling  
to c
hange the behavior or taken other positive steps to alleviate the  
stressors, circumstances, or factors that  contributed to untrustworthy,  
unreliable, or other inappropriate behavior,  and such behavior is unlikely  
to recur; and  
(e) the individual has taken positive steps to reduce or eliminate  
vul
nerability to exploitation,  manipulation, or duress.  
Appli
cant was not honest and truthful with the Government when he answered 
questions on his security clearance applications dated June 30, 2016; December 14, 
2022; and September 10, 2024, each time in response questions about his illegal drug 
use.  During this period, he was using marijuana intermittently and sporadically.  He 
deliberately lied repeatedly in response to the questions.  Therefore, his credibility 
remains in question.  This conduct shows poor judgment, unreliability, and 
untrustworthiness.  None of the mitigating conditions are applicable here. 
Whole-Person  Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness  of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct,  to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the  
8 
 
 
 
     
 
 
  
    
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
   
    
  
          
 
   
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
     
   
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent 
to which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of 
rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the 
motivation for the conduct; (8) the potential for pressure, coercion, 
exploitation, or duress; and (9) the likelihood of continuation or 
recurrence. 
Under AG ¶ 2( c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guidelines H, and E in my whole- person analysis. Based upon the facts and analysis 
set forth above, Applicant has failed to provide sufficient evidence to demonstrate that 
he meets the qualifications for a security clearance. 
Overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts as to 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance . For all these reasons, I 
conclude Applicant failed to mitigate the Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse, and 
Personal Conduct security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR,  
as required by  ¶  E3.1.25 of the Directive,  are:  
Paragraph 1,  Guideline J:  AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraph  1.a  Against  Applicant  
Paragraph 2, Guideline E:   AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  2.a through 2.d  Against  Applicant  
9 
 
 
 
 
        
    
      
 
 
 
 
 
  
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant national security eligibility 
for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Darlene Lokey Anderson 
Administrative Judge 
10 