 
 
  
 
  
        
         
           
             
 
 
    
  
       
  
   
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
        
 
      
     
      
   
 
    
  
   
    
   
    
   
______________ 
______________ 
DEPAR
TMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 25-00082 
Appearances  
For Government: Alison P. O’Connell, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
12/29/2025 
Decision 
Dorsey, Benjamin R., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not mitigate the financial considerations security concerns. Eligibility 
for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case   
On April 4, 202 5, the Department of Defense (DOD ) issued a Statement of 
Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under Guideline F (financial 
considerations). She responded to the SOR on April 22, 2025, and requested a decision 
based on the written record in lieu of a hearing. 
The Government submitted its written case on July 10, 2025. A complete copy of 
the file of relevant material (FORM) was provided to Applicant, who was advised that she 
had 30 days from her date of receipt to file objections and submit material to refute, 
extenuate, or mitigate the security concerns. Applicant received the FORM on July 25, 
2025, and she timely submitted a response (FORM Response). She did not object to any 
of the Government exhibits included in the FORM. The Government did not object to the 
FORM Response. The Government exhibits included in the FORM, marked as Items 1 
 
 
   
 
 
 
     
     
    
      
 
     
  
  
   
  
     
  
    
  
 
    
   
   
     
      
  
     
    
 
    
  
   
     
 
    
  
 
 
     
  
   
 
     
         
    
    
through 10, and the FORM Response are admitted in evidence without objection. The 
case was assigned to me on November 26, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 51-year-old who is applying for security clearance eligibility. She has 
been employed by a government contractor since October 2024. She was married in 
2007, but she has been separated since 2020 . She has two adult children and several 
grandchildren, who she helps support financially. (Items 2, 4, 5, 10; FORM Response) 
In the SOR, the Government alleged that Applicant had 11 delinquent debts 
totaling approximately $20,000 (SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1. k). The Government also alleged 
that she did not timely file her federal and state income tax returns for tax years 2021, 
2022, and 2023, as required (SOR ¶ 1.l). Finally, the SOR included an allegation that she 
filed a Chapter 7 bankruptcy petition in November 2018 that was discharged in February 
2019 (SOR ¶ 1.m). She admitted the SOR allegations . Her admissions are adopted as 
findings of fact. The SOR allegations are established through her admissions , the 
Government’s 2023 and 2025 credit reports, and documents from the Internal Revenue 
Service (IRS) and the State A taxation authority. (Items 1, 2, 4, 6, 8; FORM Response) 
Applicant provided several reasons for her financial issues. She became 
unemployed for about eight months in 2017 and 2018. She separated from her estranged 
husband in 2020. She had funeral expenses in early 2021, and she was also financially 
supporting her grandchildren. She started a new job in October 2024 where she earned 
significantly more money than her previous job. Between 2016 and 2018, she made 
approximately $16,000 or less, annually. She earns about $50,000 annually from her 
current employer. She claimed that this increase in salary has allowed her to settle her 
delinquencies and meet her financial obligations. (Items 2, 4, 5, 8, 10; FORM Response) 
In September 2024, Applicant hired a debt -consolidation company to negotiate 
payment arrangements with the SOR creditors and other creditors not listed in the SOR. 
Later that year , the debt -consolidation company sent letters to the creditor s seeking to 
settle all 11 SOR accounts in full for between $50 and $150 each. In her FORM 
Response, she provided a document showing that, in August 2025, she hired another 
debt-consolidation company that the DOD referred to her. She indicated that the first debt 
consolidation company had not been effective, that she would be seeking a refund from 
them, and she would use that refund to pay off her debts. She provided no information 
concerning why she should receive a refund from the first debt consolidation company. I 
will discuss the status of the SOR debts below. Applicant did not provide any evidence 
showing which debts were being handled by the second firm, any payment arrangements, 
or any completed payments. (Items 2, 5; FORM Response) 
The account placed for collection in the approximate amount of $1,311 listed in 
SOR ¶ 1.a is being resolved. Applicant was delinquent on the account by July 2023. She 
contacted the creditor beginning in October 2024 to make a payment arrangement . She 
made voluntary payments without an agreement with the creditor and has reduced the 
2 
 
 
 
   
 
       
     
   
    
   
   
 
     
       
   
 
    
   
 
      
  
     
 
   
   
     
 
     
   
     
   
   
 
    
   
   
 
 
   
 
   
  
 
  
   
 
   
    
 
balance to $576 between November 2024 and September 2025. She provided 
documentary evidence of these payments. (Items 2, 6, 7; FORM Response) 
The account charged off in the approximate amount of $1,300 listed in SOR ¶ 1.b 
has not been resolved. Applicant was delinquent on the account by July 2023. In the 
FORM Response, Applicant claimed that she has paid the account in full and was waiting 
on a hardcopy receipt in the mail. There is no documentary evidence that this account 
has been settled. There is a document reflecting that she made a payment of $54.20 on 
this account in June 2025. (Items 2, 6, 7, 9; FORM Response) 
The account placed for collection in the approximate amount of $1,012 listed in 
SOR ¶ 1.c has not been resolved. Applicant was delinquent on the account by June 2023. 
She contacted the creditor beginning in October 2024 to make a payment arrangement . 
In the FORM Response, Applicant claimed that she was waiting on a receipt, without 
explicitly claiming that she satisfied the account. There is no documentary evidence that 
this account has been settled. (Items 2, 6, 7, 9; FORM Response) 
The accounts charged off by the same creditor in the approximate amounts of $892 
and $830, listed in SOR ¶¶ 1.d and 1.e, respectively, are being resolved. Applicant 
contacted the creditor beginning in October 2024 to make a payment arrangement . She 
made four payments between $50 and $80 on the account in SOR ¶ 1.d between June 
2025 and August 2025. She made two payments of about $40 and $80, respectively , on 
the account in SOR ¶ 1.e in June 2025 and July 2025. She provided documentary 
corroboration of these payments. (Items 2, 6, 7; FORM Response) 
The account charged off in the approximate amount of $725 listed in SOR ¶ 1.f 
has not been resolved. Applicant contacted the creditor beginning in October 2024 to 
make a payment arrangement. In the FORM Response, Applicant claimed that she paid 
the account and was waiting on a receipt . There is no documentary evidence that this 
account has been settled. (Items 2, 6, 7, 9; FORM Response) 
The account placed for collection in the approximate amount of $713 listed in SOR 
¶ 1.g has not been resolved. Applicant was delinquent on the account by June 2023. She 
contacted the creditor beginning in October 2024 to make a payment arrangement. In the 
FORM Response, Applicant claimed that she was waiting on a receipt, without explicitly 
claiming that she satisfied the account. There is no documentary evidence that this 
account has been settled. (Items 2, 6, 7, 9; FORM Response) 
The account placed for collection in the approximate amount of $533 listed in SOR 
¶ 1.h has not been resolved. Applicant contacted the creditor beginning in October 2024 
to make a payment arrangement. Despite admitting that she owed the debt in the Answer, 
in the FORM Response, she claimed that she turned over a secured item to the creditor 
and does not owe it any money. She provided a copy of an undated complaint she filed 
with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). The document does not provide 
a basis for the complaint, merely that it has been filed. She did not provide a document 
that revealed whether her complaint was successful or its status. (Items 2, 6, 7, 9; FORM 
Response) 
3 
 
 
  
    
  
  
      
 
    
 
   
 
     
  
   
 
    
   
  
  
  
       
    
 
   
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
     
 
     
    
      
     
  
 
    
  
     
 
 
     
      
The account placed for collection in the approximate amount of $505 listed in SOR 
¶ 1.i has not been resolved. Applicant was delinquent on the account by June 2023. She 
contacted the creditor beginning in October 2024 to make a payment arrangement. In the 
FORM Response, Applicant did not claim that she made any payments on this account, 
but she did make payments on another account listed in SOR ¶ 1.a, with the same 
creditor. There is no documentary evidence that this account has been settled or that 
payments have been made. (Items 2, 6, 7, 9; FORM Response) 
The account charged off in the approximate amount of $233 listed in SOR ¶ 1.j 
has not been resolved. Applicant contacted the creditor beginning in October 2024 to 
make a payment arrangement. In the FORM Response, Applicant did not claim that she 
made any payments on this account. There is no documentary evidence that this account 
has been settled or that payments have been made. (Items 2, 6, 7, 9; FORM Response) 
The account charged off in the approximate amount of $12,066 listed in SOR ¶ 1.k 
has not been resolved. Despite Applicant admitting that she owed the debt in the Answer, 
in the FORM Response, she claimed that the balance should be lower because she does 
not believe that it reflects the sale of the vehicle securing the loan. She provided a copy 
of an undated complaint she filed with the CFPB. The document does not provide a basis 
for the complaint , merely that it has been filed. She did not provide a document that 
revealed whether her complaint was successful or its status . She did not provide a 
document supporting her theory that the balance on the account should be lower. She 
did not provide evidence of any payments on this account. (Items 2, 6, 7, 9; FORM 
Response) 
Applicant did not timely file her federal and state income tax returns for tax years 
2021, 2022, and 2023, as required. She claimed that her ability to do so was out of her 
control for a reason she did not provide. In April 2025, she hired a tax consultant to help 
her file these late income tax returns. With the tax consultant’s assistance, she filed her 
federal and state income taxes for tax years 2021, 2022, 2023, and 2024 in May 2025. 
While the SOR did not allege a failure to timely file her income tax returns for tax year 
2024, I note it for its potential mitigative effect. (Items 2, 5, 9; FORM Response) 
As a result of these income tax filings, Applicant owes federal taxes of $865 for tax 
year 2022 and $551 for tax year 2024. She owes state taxes in the amount of $942 for 
tax year 2021, $69 for tax year 2022, $561 for tax year 2023, and $142 for tax year 2024. 
She claimed that these delinquent taxes are owed by her estranged husband; h owever, 
she provided no evidence to corroborate this claim. The documents she provided in her 
FORM Response to show that she does not owe delinquent taxes do not support that 
assertion. The SOR did not allege the delinquent federal and state taxes, so I will not use 
that information for purposes of disqualification. I will use it for appropriate purposes, such 
as for evidence of mitigation and in my whole-person analysis. In the FORM Response, 
she indicated that she was unhappy with the tax consultant she hired and would be 
seeking a refund of the approximately $2,100 she paid them. She implied that the tax 
consultant only filed her taxes but was also supposed to pay them or negotiate their 
payment. The document s she provided did not support an assertion that the tax 
4 
 
 
   
 
 
   
   
       
   
  
 
   
  
  
     
     
    
 
 
   
 
 
   
      
    
    
  
 
    
  
  
      
   
 
 
   
   
    
  
      
      
 
 
 
   
     
 
consultant agreed to pay her taxes or negotiate their payment . (Items 2, 5, 9; FORM 
Response) 
Applicant filed a Chapter 7 bankruptcy petition in November 2018. She had about 
$60,000 in financial delinquencies discharged in February 2019. These delinquencies 
included significant medical debts. She claimed that she filed bankruptcy because of a 
job loss that led to her unemployment for about eight months between 2017 and 2018. 
(Items 2, 4-8, 10; FORM Response) 
Applicant settled other delinquent accounts, including three credit -card accounts 
originally owned by the same creditor. The 2024 credit report reflects a combined balance 
of about $1,600 on these three accounts. She provided documents, including bank 
account statements from June 2025 and July 2025, that evidenced payments she made. 
These July 2025 bank statements show that the bank account from which these payments 
were drawn temporarily had a negative balance when she made some of these payments. 
She provided documents showing that several accounts not listed in the SOR were 
removed from her credit report. The documents do not provide a reason that the accounts 
were removed. (Items 2, 7; FORM Response) 
Policies  
This case is adjudicated under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding 
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive) ; and the adjudicative guidelines (AG ), which became 
effective within DOD on June 8, 2017. 
When evaluating an applicant ’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
5 
 
 
      
     
  
    
     
 
    
   
   
  
    
     
    
    
 
   
 
    
  
 
 
 
       
 
  
   
 
  
   
   
   
  
  
   
 
  
    
  
 
 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a f iduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline F, Financial Considerations  
The security concern for financial considerations is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one ’s means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self-control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual ’s reliability, trustworthiness , and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overe xtended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a)  inability to satisfy  deb
 ts;  
(c) a history of not  mee ting financial obligations; and  
(f) failure to file or fraudulently filing annual Federal, state, or local income 
tax
 returns  or failure to pay annual Federal, state,  or local income tax as  
required.  
6 
 
 
 
   
  
       
   
 
 
    
    
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
  
   
  
 
    
   
Substantial evidence establishes that Applicant began having financial 
delinquencies by 2018 and filed for bankruptcy protection. She failed to timely file her 
federal and state income tax returns for tax years 2021, 2022, and 2023, as required. By 
June 2023, she was again behind on her financial obligations. She had 11 delinquent 
consumer accounts totaling about $20,000. The above disqualifying conditions are 
established. 
Conditions that could mitigate the financial considerations security concerns are 
provided under AG ¶ 20. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
under
 such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good judgment;   
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial  probl em were largely beyond  
the person’s control  (e.g., loss of employment, a business  downturn,  
unexpected medical  emergency, a death, divorce or separation, clear  
victimization by  predatory  lending practi ces, or identity theft),  and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;   
(c) the individual  has r eceived or is receiving financial counseling for the  
problem from  a legitimate and credible source, such as a non- profit credit  
counseling service,  and there are clear indications that the problem is being  
resolved or is under control;  
(d) t he individual initiated and is adhering to a good- fai th effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  
(e) the individual has  a reas onable basis to  dispute the legitimacy  of the 
past-due debt which is  the cause of the problem and provides documented  
proof to substantiate the basis of  the dispute or provides evidence of actions  
to resolve the issue; and  
(g) the individual has  mad e arrangements with the appropriate tax authority  
to file or  pay the amount owed and is in compliance with those  
arrangements.  
The Ap
peal Board in ISCR Case No. 10-04641 (App. Bd. Sept. 24, 2013) explained 
Applicant’s responsibility for proving the applicability of mitigating conditions as follows: 
Once a concern arises regarding an Applicant’s security clearance 
eligibility, there is a strong presumption against the grant or maintenance of 
a security clearance. See Dorfmont v. Brown, 913 F. 2d 1399, 1401 (9th 
Cir. 1990), cert. denied, 499 U.S. 905 (1991). After the Government 
presents evidence raising security concerns, the burden shifts to the 
applicant to rebut or mitigate those concerns. See Directive ¶ E3.1.15. The 
standard applicable in security clearance decisions is that articulated in 
7 
 
 
 
    
  
   
   
  
    
     
    
      
  
   
     
    
 
   
  
 
    
 
    
   
      
    
  
     
   
   
   
     
 
     
   
   
 
    
    
   
   
     
  
   
  
Egan, supra. “Any doubt concerning personnel being considered for access  
to classified information will be resolved in favor of the national security.”  
Directive, Enclosure 2  ¶ 2(b).   
AG ¶ 20(a) does not apply. “It is also well established that an applicant’s ongoing, 
unpaid debts demonstrate a continuing course of conduct and can be viewed as recent 
for purposes of the Guideline F mitigating conditions.” ISCR Case No. 22-02226 at 2 (App. 
Bd. Oct. 27, 2023) (citing ISCR Case No. 15- 06532 at 3 (App. Bd. Feb. 16, 2017)). It is 
reasonable to expect Applicant to present documentation about the resolution of specific 
debts. See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 15- 03363 at 2 (App. Bd. Oct. 16, 2016). While she 
provided documentation to show that she has made some payments on some of her SOR 
and non-SOR debts, there is insufficient evidence that her financial problems are behind 
her. She still has not adequately addressed most of her SOR debts. While she filed her 
delinquent federal and state income tax returns (and her 2024 income tax returns), s he 
has not provided sufficient evidence that she is resolving her delinquent federal and state 
income taxes. Finally, her evidence of payment on non-SOR debts in July 2025 reflected 
a negative bank account balance, which leads me to question her financial stability. 
AG ¶ 20( b) partially applies to Applicant’s bankruptcy filing and her delinquent 
debts, but not to her failure to timely file her income tax returns. Unemployment, 
underemployment, and a marriage separation, which were circumstances largely beyond 
her control, led to her bankruptcy filing and her delinquent debts. However, she provided 
insufficient evidence to show that her failure to file her income tax returns for three years 
was beyond her control. For AG ¶ 20(b) to fully apply to her non-tax-related issues, she 
must also show that she acted responsibly under the circumstances. Hiring a debt 
consolidation company was a step in the right direction. However, her lack of progress on 
addressing her delinquencies through meaningful payments despite claiming that she has 
been able to afford to pay them leads me to find that she has not met her burden. 
Admitting two debts in her answer (SOR ¶¶ 1.h and 1.k) and then later disputing them for 
reasons that are not adequately supported through explanation or documents is also not 
acting responsibly with respect to those debts. Finally, while filing a petition in Chapter 7 
bankruptcy to discharge debts is a legal option available to address financial 
delinquencies, it does not show financial responsibility or good faith. 
AG ¶ 20( c) partially applies. Applicant has sought financial counseling from a 
company to which the DOD referred her. However, as I indicated in my analysis of AG 
¶ 20(a), her financial issues are ongoing and are not under control. 
AG ¶ 20(d) partially applies, but only to the debts that Applicant is resolving. “[U]ntil 
an applicant has a meaningful financial track record, it cannot be said as a matter of law 
that [s]he has initiated a good-faith effort to repay overdue creditors or otherwise resolved 
debts. The phrase ‘meaningful track record’ necessarily includes evidence of actual debt 
reduction through payment on debts.” ISCR Case No. 22-02226 at 2 (App. Bd. Oct. 27, 
2023) (citing ISCR Case No. 05-01920 at 5 (App. Bd. Mar. 1, 2007)). Appellant provided 
evidence that she has made some payments on three SOR accounts and some non-SOR 
accounts. However, these payments are insubstantial in relation to her overall 
8 
 
 
  
     
 
   
   
  
  
   
    
    
 
    
  
   
 
  
 
 
  
  
    
   
 
 
   
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
  
    
  
    
  
 
delinquencies. She also has not provided sufficient evidence that she is resolving her 
federal and state income tax delinquencies. 
AG ¶ 20( e) is not applicable. While Applicant arguably disputes two of the SOR 
debts (SOR ¶¶ 1.h and 1.k) and her tax debts, she did not provide sufficient evidence to 
support her theories as to why she no longer owes those debts. Her base allegation that 
she turned in secured collateral, without more, is not a reasonable basis to dispute a debt 
because returning secured collateral does not automatically extinguish the underlying 
debt. Likewise, her recent and unsubstantiated assertion that her estranged husband 
owes her delinquent taxes is not a reasonable basis to dispute her tax debt. 
AG ¶ 20( g) is applicable to Applicant filing her late federal and state income tax 
returns. However, the evidence also shows that she now owes delinquent f ederal and 
state taxes. There is insufficient evidence that she has an arrangement with the IRS or 
the state taxation authority to pay those taxes or that those entities have acknowledged 
that the taxes are owed by Applicant’s estranged husband. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. I considered the potentially 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances 
surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under Guideline F in my whole-
person analysis. 
While some of the mitigating factors are partially applicable, I find their limited 
applicability insufficient to overcome the questions about her judgment and reliability that 
her remaining financial delinquencies raise. Given her lack of resolution of most of her 
financial delinquencies, including her delinquent income taxes, which are a basic civic 
obligation, I am not convinced that she has righted her financial ship. I conclude Applicant 
did not mitigate the financial considerations security concerns. 
9 
 
 
 
       
    
 
  
 
  
 
 
       
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:  AG
 AINST APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.m:  Against  Applicant   
Conclusion  
It is
 not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for 
a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Benjamin R. Dorsey 
Administrative Judge 
10 