 
 
 
                                                              
 
 
                                                                                                                    
          
           
             
 
 
 
 
  
  
                
   
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
    
      
    
     
  
     
     
______________ 
______________ 
DEPART
MENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 25-00087 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: 
Tara Karoian, Esquire, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: 
Alan Edmunds, Esquire, Applicant’s Counsel 
12/02/2025 
Decision 
CEFOLA, Richard A., Administrative Judge: 
Statement  of the Case  
On May 10, 2024, Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SF -86). 
On March 25, 2025, in accordance with Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 5220.6, 
as amended (Directive), the DoD issued Applicant a Statement of Reasons (SOR) 
alleging facts that raise security concerns under Guidelines H , E and F. The action was 
taken under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information Within 
Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DoD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial 
Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
      
    
 
 
   
  
    
       
    
 
  
 
       
   
   
   
 
   
     
 
 
 
(Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) effective within the Department of 
Defense on June 8, 2017. 
Applicant answered the SOR in writing (Answer)  soon thereafter, and requested a  
hearing before an administrative judge. The case was  assigned to me on September 9,  
2025. The Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a Notice of Hearing 
on September  9, 2025. I convened the hearing as scheduled on September 23,  2025. 
The Government offered  Government  Exhibits 1 through 6, which were admitted without  
objection. Applicant testified on his own behalf  and offered  Applicant Exhibits (AppXs)  
A~J.  DOHA received the transcript of the hearing (TR ) on  October 3, 2025. The record  
was left open for  the receipt of additional evidence. On September 24
th, 25th  and 29th,  
2025,  Applicant offered AppXs K,  L, M  and N, and received without  objection. The record  
closed at that time.  This Decision was delayed when all administrative judges were  
furloughed from October  1 through November 12, 2025, during a  Federal  government  
shutdown due to a lapse in Federal Funding.  
Fi
ndings of Fact  
Applicant admitted the allegations in SOR with explanations. After a thorough and 
careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of 
fact. 
Applicant is a 30 -year-old employee of a defense contractor. He is currently 
unemployed, but had been employed with the defense contractor since April of 2024. 
Applicant has held a security clearance in the past, while he served in the U.S. Army from 
September 2014 to July 2020. He is not married, and has no children. (TR at page 6 line 
15 to page 7 line 8, at page 14 line 15 to page 16 line 6, and GX 1 at pages 5, 10, 15~16 
and 18.) 
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
1.a.~1.c. Applicant admits that on or about May 11, 2020, he tested positive for 
marijuana/THC, as the result of a random urinalysis. In May of 2020, he was “taking 
gummies . . . trying to get some sleep and relief from the stress that . . . [was] going on at 
the time.” Applicant avers that he “just lost two of my soldiers who were . . . very close to” 
Applicant. He held a security clearance while on active duty with the Army. (TR at page 
16 line 19 to page 19 line 19, at page 26 line 13 to page 32 line 16, GX 1 at pages 27~28, 
GX 2 at pages 11~13, and GX 3 pages 1~2.) 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Gu
ideline E  - Personal Conduct  (The allegations  are discussed chronologically.)  
2.b. Applicant  admits that  he falsified material facts  on his May 10,  2024, SF-86, 
in response to “Section 23 –  Illegal Use of  Drugs or Drug Activity in the last seven (7)  
years,  have you illegally used drugs  or controlled substances? . .  . [and] Have you EVER  
illegally used a drug or controlled substance while possessing a security clearance . .  . ?”  
Applicant  answered “No.” In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant claims  a “lapse in memory,”  
and at his hearing, “it  was just something I had forgotten about.”  This explanation is  not  
credible. He knowingly used THC gummies, noted above. I find this to be a willful  
falsification. (TR at page 22 lines 6~20,  at page 32 line 11 to page 33 line 18, and GX 1  
at page 26.)  
2.a.  Applicant admits that , four  months later,  he falsified material facts  during a  
personal subject interview (PSI) on September 5,  2024, with an investigator with the  
Defense Counterintelligence and Security  Agency (DCSA), when asked whether  he had  
ever failed any  drug test provided by the military. Applicant answered “No.” In his  Answer  
to the SOR, Applicant  again claims  a “lapse in memory,” and at  his  hearing, “it was just  
something  that had slipped my memory .”  This explanation is  not credible. He knowingly  
used THC gummies, noted above under Drug Involvement, and tested positive for drug  
use. I find this to  be a  willful falsification. (TR  at  page  20 line 21 to page 22 line 3, and GX  
2 at page 7.)  
Guideline F - Financial  Considerations  
3.a. Applicant  admits that he was indebted to Creditor A, for  a past-due,  motorcycle  
debt, in the amount  of about $15,360. He has submitted post-hearing documentation  
showing that “there is no balance due.”  This allegation is found for  Applicant. (TR at page  
22 line 21 to page 24 line 5,  at  page 35 line 23 to page 37 line 5,  and AppXs B, M and N.)  
3.b. Applicant admits that he was indebted to Creditor B, for a past -due, motor  
vehicle debt, in the amount  of  about $2,081. He has submitted documentation showing  
that “this loan has been paid off in full.”  This allegation is found for  Applicant. (TR at  page 
38 lines 15~21, and AppX  A.)  
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for national security eligibility, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines (AG) list 
potentially disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in 
evaluating an applicant’s national security eligibility. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
  
 
  
   
   
   
 
  
   
  
   
    
  
 
  
  
   
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the 
factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s 
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. The entire 
process is a conscientious scrutiny of applicable guidelines in the context of a number of 
variables known as the whole- person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. I have not drawn inferences based on mere speculation or 
conjecture. 
Directive ¶ E3.1.14, requires the Government to present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel, and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable clearance decision.” 
A person applying for national security eligibility seeks to enter into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants national 
security eligibility. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk the 
applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as 
to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified or sensitive information. 
Finally, as emphasized in Section 7 of Executive Order 10865, “[a]ny determination under 
this order adverse to an applicant shall be a determination in terms of the national interest 
and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” 
See also Executive Order 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information.) 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
  
  
    
 
  
Analysis  
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  
The security concern relating to the guideline Drug Involvement and Substance 
Misuse is set forth at AG ¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual's reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person's ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any "controlled substance" as 
defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in 
this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
The guideline at AG ¶ 25 contains seven conditions that could raise a security 
concern and may be disqualifying. Three conditions are established: 
(a) any substance misuse (see above definition);  
(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation,  
proc
essing, manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession of  
drug paraphernalia; and  
(f) any illegal  drug use while granted access to classified information or  
holding a sensitive position.  
Appell
ant consumed THC gummies in May of 2020. He had a security clearance 
for his job at that time. Therefore, AG ¶ 25 (a), (c), and (f) are established. 
The guideline at AG ¶ 26 contains four conditions that could mitigate security 
concerns. One condition is applicable: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or happened  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur  or does not cast doubt  
on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good judgment.  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
    
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
     
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
     
 
 
Applicant used marijuana/THC more than five tears ago, and under unusual 
circumstances. He used the THC gummies as a sleep aid, mourning the loss of two fellow 
soldiers. Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse is found for Applicant. 
Guideline E  - Personal Conduct  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Personal Conduct is set out in 
AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to 
cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes. The following will normally result in 
an unfavorable national security eligibility determination, security clearance 
action, or cancellation of further processing for national security eligibility: 
(a) refusal, or failure without reasonable cause, to undergo or  
coop
erate with security processing, including but  not limited  
to meeting with a security investigator for subject interview,  
completing security forms or releases, cooperation with  
medical or  psychological evaluation, or polygraph  
examination, if  authorized and required; and  
(b) refusal to provide full, frank, and truthful answers to lawful  
quest
ions of investigators, security officials,  or other official  
representatives in connection with a personnel security  or  
trustworthiness determination.  
The guid
eline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 16. Two are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) deliberate omission, concealment,  or f alsification of relevant  facts from 
any personnel  security questionnaire, personal  history  statement,  or similar  
form  used to conduct investigations, determine employment qualifications,  
award benefits  or status,  determine national security eligibility or  
trustworthiness,  or award  fiduciary responsibilities;  and  
(b) deliberately providing false or  mi sleading information; or concealing or  
omitting information, concerning relevant  facts to an employer, investigator,  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
    
    
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
    
 
    
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
   
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
security official, competent medical or mental health professional involved 
in making a recommendation relevant to a national security eligibility 
determination, or other official government representative. 
Applicant falsified his May 2024, SF -86, and continued this ruse during his 
September 2024 subject interview. The evidence is sufficient to raise these disqualifying 
conditions. 
AG ¶ 17 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. I considered 
all of the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 17 including: 
(a) the individual  mad
 e prompt,  good-faith efforts to correct the omission,  
concealment,  or falsification before being confronted with the facts;  and  
(b) the refusal or failure to cooperate, omission, or concealment was caused  
or s
ignificantly contributed to by  advice of legal  counsel  or of  a person with  
professional responsibilities for advising or instructing the individual  
specifically concerning security processes. Upon being made aware of the  
requirement to cooperate or  provide the information, the individual  
cooperated fully and t ruthfully.  
Neit
her of these apply. Applicant appeared to be “in denial” as to his past illegal 
usage of THC gummies, both in his answers on his SF -86, and during his subject 
interview, four months later. I find these to be willful falsifications. Personal Conduct is 
found against Applicant. 
Guideline F - Financial Considerations  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Financial Considerations is set 
out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's means, satisfy debts, and meet financial 
obligations may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or 
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise 
questions about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to 
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be 
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other 
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental 
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An 
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to 
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
 
 
 
 
      
   
 
  
   
 
 
     
   
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
Affluence that cannot  be explained by known sources of income is also a  
security concern insofar as it  may result from criminal activity, including  
espionage.  
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. Three are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) inability to satisfy  debt
 s;  
(b) unwillingness  to s atisfy debts regardless of the ability to do so;  and  
(c) a history of not  mee ting financial  obligations.  
Appli
cant had two past-due debts totaling about $17,711. The evidence is sufficient 
to raise these disqualifying conditions. 
AG ¶ 20 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. I considered 
all of the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 including: 
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- faith effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.  
Applicant has satisfied his admitted past -due debts. Mitigation under AG ¶ 20(d) 
has been established. Financial Considerations is found for Applicant. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the administrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s national security eligibility by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct 
and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should consider the nine 
adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.   
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
   
 
 
 
   
   
    
    
 
 
    
   
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
According to AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant national 
security eligibility must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the applicable guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guidelines H, E and F in my whole -person analysis. Some of the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) 
were addressed under those guidelines, but some warrant additional comment. Applicant 
was respected in the U.S. Army, and is respected in the workplace. (AppXs D~G, K and 
L.) 
However, overall, the record evidence leaves me with questions and doubts as to 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance . For all these reasons, I 
conclude Applicant failed to mitigate the Personal Conduct security concerns. 
Formal  Findings  
Formal findings  for or  against Applicant  on the allegations set forth in the SOR,  as  
required by  ¶  E3.1.25 of  the Directive, are:  
Paragraph 1,  G
 uideline H:   FOR APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a~1.c:  For Applicant  
Paragraph 2, Guideline E:   AGAINST  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  2.a. and 2.b:  Against  Applicant  
Paragraph 3, Guideline F:   FOR APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  3.a. and 3.b:  For Applicant  
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
      
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Richard A. Cefola 
Administrative Judge 
10 