 
 
 
 
                                                              
      
               
          
             
 
    
  
                                                                               
   
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
       
 
                                                             
 
 
  
 
    
  
     
 
 
    
    
  
    
  
 
   
     
 
    
  
    
       
__________ 
__________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 25-00137 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Brian Farrell, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
07/28/2025 
Decision 
WESLEY, ROGER C. Administrative Judge 
Based upon a review of the case file, pleadings, and exhibits, A pplicant did not 
mitigate drug involvement and substance abus e concerns . Eligibility for access to 
classified information or to hold a sensitive position is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
On February 28, 2025, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
(DSCA) Consolidated Adjudications Services (CAS) issued a statement of reasons 
(SOR) to Applicant detailing reasons why under the drug involvement and substance 
abuse guideline th e D SCA CAS could not make the preliminary affirmative 
determination of eligibility for granting a security clearance, and recommended referral 
to an administrative judge to determine whether a security clearance should be granted, 
continued, denied, or revoked. The action was taken under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 
10865, Safeguarding Cl assified I nformation within Industry (February 20, 1960); 
Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program , DoD Directive 
5220.6 (January 2, 1992) ( Directive); and Security Executive Agent Directive 4, 
establishing in Appendix A the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for 
Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a 
Sensitive Position (AGs), effective June 8, 2017. 
1 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
  
     
  
 
   
    
      
 
    
    
  
 
     
   
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
    
  
   
 
 
        
      
 
     
    
 
     
   
 
 
    
  
     
      
  
        
     
Applicant responded to the SOR on March 11, 2025, and elected to have his 
case decided on the written recor d in lieu of a hearing. He received the File of Relevant 
Material (FORM), inclusive of the Government’s exhibits (GEs 1-5), on March 25, 2025, 
and interposed no objections to the materials in the FORM, inclusive of his Personal 
Subject Interview (PSI) that was included as a Government exhibit without an 
authenticating witness. (Item 5) Applicant did not respond to the FORM. The case was 
assigned to me on July 8, 2025. 
Summary  of Pleadings  
Under Guideline H, Applicant allegedly purchased and used marijuana with 
varying frequency, since about September 2013 to about November 2024. Allegedly, he 
used Mushrooms in about July 2017. 
In Applicant’s response to the SOR, he admitted the allegations with 
explanations. He acknowledged his awareness of the illegality of his actions while he 
was a young college student. He claimed to better understand the importance of 
compliance with laws and regulations . Without disclaiming any future marijuana use, he 
claimed that while federal law never significantly impacted his daily activities, he has 
strived to adhere to stricter federal laws and ensure that these standards are 
consistently upheld. (Item 2) 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 30-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security 
clearance. The admitted allegations are incorporated and adopted as r elevant and 
material findings. Additional findings follow. 
Background  
Applicant never married and has no children. ((Item 3)  H e earned a bachelor’s 
degree in May 1995. He reported no military service. (Item 3) 
Since June 2016, Applicant has worked for his current employer as a human 
resource supervisor. (item 3) Previously, he worked for other employers in various jobs. 
He reported unemployment between October 2012 and February 2015 while he was in 
college. He has no prior or current security clearances but is presently sponsored by his 
current employer. (GEs 3 and 4) 
Use of Illegal  Substances  
Over the course of 11 years (September 2013 through November 2024) , 
Applicant purchased and used marijuana, a drug federally banned by the Controlled 
Substance Act (21 U.S.C. § 802, et seq.) (CSA), but legalized in his state of residence. 
(Items 3 -6) Marijuana was h is major drug of choice, and the only drug cited in the 
electronic questionnaires for investigations processing (e- QIP) he completed in 
November 2023. He confirmed his purchases and use of marijuana in his personal 
subject interview (PSI) of July 2024. (Item 5) His marijuana purchases were made from 
2 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
   
  
 
  
    
     
     
  
 
  
 
    
       
  
 
    
   
         
  
 
 
 
     
    
   
  
  
    
      
 
             
 
    
 
  
  
    
 
           
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
a legal dispensary in his state of residence where marijuana has been legalized for 
many years. (Item 5) 
In his PSI, he told the investigator that after experimenting with the drug in 2013 
out of curiosity, he used marijuana recreationally on a weekly basis in social situations 
to alleviate stress and relax. (Item 5). While he never experienced any adverse effects 
from his marijuana use, he told the investigator he had no future intentions of using the 
drug in the future. (item 5) 
Despite these future abstinence assurances provided to the PSI investigator, 
Applicant continued his marijuana use to at least November 2024 and continues to 
associate with friends in his state of residence who use marijuana . (Item 5) Applicant 
has never felt dependent on marijuana and has never failed a drug test. He has never 
pursued any form of drug treatment or counseling. (Item 5) 
Besides marijuana, Applicant used hallucinogenic mushrooms on a single 
occasion in 2017. (Items 2 and 5) He expressed no intentions of using mushrooms in 
the future and does not believe that any of his friends are aware of his past mushroom 
usage. (Item 5) 
Policies  
By virtue of the jurisdictional principles recognized by the U.S. Supreme Court in 
Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988), “no one has a  right to a 
security clearance.” As Commander in Chief, “the President has the authority to control 
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual 
is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information. ” Id. at 527. Eligibility for 
access to classified information may only be granted “ upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so. ” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding Classified 
Information within Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. 
Application approvals for a security clearance is predicated upon the a pplicant 
meeting the criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not 
inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these 
guidelines are applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’ s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial , and 
commonsense decision. An administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The AGs list guidelines to be considered by judges in the decision-making process 
covering DOHA cases. These AG guidelines take into account factors that could create a 
potential conflict of interest for the individual applicant, as well as considerations that 
could affect the individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified 
information. The AG guidelines include conditions that could raise a security concern and 
may be disqualifying (disqualifying conditions), if any, and all of the conditions that could 
mitigate security concerns, if any. These guidelines must be considered before deciding 
whether or not a security clearance should be granted, continued, or denied. Although, 
3 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
  
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
     
  
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
            
  
  
 
  
 
    
  
    
   
    
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
  
   
the guidelines do not require judges to place exclusive reliance on the enumerated 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in the guidelines in arriving at a decision. 
In addition to the relevant AGs, judges must take into account the pertinent 
considerations for assessing extenuation and mitigation set forth in ¶ 2(a) of the AGs, 
which are intended to assist the judges in reaching a fair and impartial, commonsense 
decision based on a careful consideration of the pertinent guidelines within the context 
of the whole person. The adjudicative process is designed to examine a sufficient period 
of an applicant’s life to enable predictive judgments to be made about whether the 
applicant is an acceptable security risk. 
When evaluating an applicant’s conduct, the relevant guidelines are to be 
considered together with the following ¶ 2(d) factor s: ( 1) the nature, extent, and 
seriousness of the conduct; (2) the circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include 
knowledgeable participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to which 
participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation and other 
permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation of the conduct; (8) the potential for 
pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the likelihood of continuation or 
recurrence. 
Viewing the issues raised and evidence as a whole, the following individual 
guidelines are pertinent herein: 
  Drug Involvement  
The Concern: The illegal use of controlled substances, to include 
the misuse of prescription drugs, and the use of other substances that 
cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because  such behavior 
may lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, 
rules, and regulations. Controlled substance means any “controlled 
substance” as defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic 
term adopted in this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed 
above. 
Burdens of Proof  
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation 
about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Clearance decisions must be “in terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be 
4 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
       
      
 
  
     
     
        
 
     
   
     
        
   
    
   
  
         
 
 
     
   
  
    
 
 
     
      
     
     
   
   
  
 
  
  
 
    
     
   
    
a determination as to the loyalty of the a pplicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 § 7. 
See also Exec. Or. 12968 (Aug. 2, 1995), § 3.1. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in 
the personal or professional history of the a pplicant that may disqualify the applicant 
from being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden 
of establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan, 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence”  is  “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance. ”   
See v. Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4 th  Cir. 1994). The  
guidelines presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any  
of the criteria listed therein and an  applicant’s security suitability.  See  ISCR Case No.  
95-0611 at 2 (App. Bd. May 2,  1996).   
O
nce the Government establishes a disqualifying condition by substantial 
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the 
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it 
is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue his [or her] security 
clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01 -20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). The burden of 
disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the G overnment. See ISCR Case No. 
02-31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, 
if they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; see AG ¶ 2(b). 
Analysis  
Security concerns are raised over Applicant’s lengthy history of marijuana usage 
While he has never been granted a security clearance, he continues to be sponsored by 
his current employer. Additional security concerns are raised over Applicant’s isolated 
use of hallucinogenic mushrooms in 2017. 
Drug Involvement concerns  
Applicant’s recurrent purchase and use of marijuana over a 10-year period 
between 2013 and August 2023. His marijuana activity is detailed in his January 2025 
PSI. Beginning in 20 13, he purchased and used marijuana on weekly between 2013 
and September 2024. On the strength of the evidence presented, t hree DCs of the AGs 
for drug involvement apply to Applicant’s situation: DC ¶¶ 25(a), ”any substance 
misuse”; 25(c), “illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation, 
processing, manufacture, purchase, sale, or distribution; or possession of Illegal drugs 
or drug paraphernalia”; and 25(g) “expressed intent to continue drug involvement and 
substance misuse, or failure to clearly and convincingly commit to discontinue such 
misuse.” 
Whether Applicant is unconditionally committed to abstinence from the use of 
illegal drugs is unclear. For his pledge of abstinence made in his July 2024 PSI was 
never unqualified, and he returned to marijuana use in November 2024 following his 
PSI. Further, he has reserved the possibility of resuming his marijuana use should he 
5 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
  
 
   
    
  
  
   
    
 
  
   
     
 
 
   
      
 
     
 
                                   
                                 
 
 
     
      
    
 
 
 
   
 
__________________________ 
no longer hold a job that requires a security clearance  and adherence to the federal ban  
on marijuana possession. Under these circumstances, none of the potentially mitigating  
conditions  covered in the Directive are available to Applicant.   See ISCR Case No. 16 -
03460 at 4 (App. Bd. May 24, 2018) ; ISCR  Case No. 07- 10804 (App.  Bd. June 19,  
2008).  Mitigation is available to Applicant  only for his isolated experimental use of  
mushrooms  in 2017.  
W
hole-person assessment  
Whole-person assessment of Applicant’s clearance eligibility requires 
consideration of whether his history of marijuana use (inclusive of his resumption of 
marijuana use in November 2024 after pledging abstinence in his 2023 PSI) and 
isolated use of hallucinogenic mushrooms in 2017 r eflects collective judgment lapses 
incompatible with his holding a security clearance. 
From a whole- person perspective, Applicant has not established enough 
independent probative evidence of his overall, trustworthiness, reliability, and good 
judgment required of those who seek eligibility to hold a security clearance or sensitive 
position. While he is deserving of considerable credit for the contributions he has made 
to the defense industry, it is too soon to absolve Applicant of risks of recurrent 
marijuana use. I have fully applied the law, as set forth in Department of Navy v. Egan, 
484 U.S. 518 (1988) , Exec. Or. 10865 , the Directive, and the AGs , to the facts and 
circumstances in the context of the whole person. I conclude that Applicant’s past use of 
federally banned marijuana is not mitigated. Eligibility for access to classified 
information is denied. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, 
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
   GUIDELINE H (DRUG INVOLVEMENT):   
  
    Subparagraph 1.a:      
  Subparagraph 1.b:      
      AGAINST APPLICANT  
        Against   Applicant  
           For Applicant  
Conc
lusion  
In l
ight of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not 
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security 
clearance.  Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Roger C. Wesley 
Administrative Judge 
6 