 
 
                                                              
                         
          
           
             
 
 
 
    
  
     
  
   
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
      
  
   
     
    
    
  
 
   
     
        
    
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 25-00147 
Appearances  
For Government: Nicole A. Smith, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro Se 
11/19/2025 
Decision 
HOGAN, Erin C., Administrative Judge: 
This case involves security concerns raised under Guideline F (Financial 
Considerations). Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on July 16, 2024. On 
February 5, 2025, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) sent her 
a Statement of Reasons (SOR) alleging security concerns under Guideline F. The DCSA 
acted under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of Defense ( DOD) Directive 
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 
1992), as amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) implemented by the 
DOD on June 8, 2017. 
Applicant timely answered the SOR and requested a decision based on the written 
record in lieu of a hearing. On June 4, 2025, the Government sent Applicant a complete 
copy of its written case, a file of relevant material (FORM) , including pleadings and 
evidentiary documents identified as Items 1 through 7 . She was given an opportunity to 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
     
  
 
 
 
      
    
 
 
    
   
    
   
      
  
    
 
  
   
    
 
   
   
      
    
   
    
      
   
   
    
     
   
   
   
   
submit a documentary response setting forth objections, rebuttal, extenuation, mitigation, 
or explanation to the Government’s evidence. She received the FORM on June 11, 2025. 
She was given 30 days to submit a Response to the FORM. She did not submit a 
response. The case was forwarded to the DOHA Hearing Office on July 25 , 2025, and 
assigned to me on November 14, 2025. 
Evidentiary Matters  
Items 1 and 2 contain the pleadings in the case and are part of the record. Items 
3 through 7 are admitted into evidence.  
Findings of Fact  
Applicant, age 48, is an employee of a DOD contractor who is seeking a security 
clearance for the first time. She has been employed with the DOD contractor since July 
2023. She has no military service. She is a high school graduate and has some college 
credits. She is single and has two adult children. (Item 3)   
The SOR alleged Applicant filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy in May 2019. Her total 
assets were listed as $8,704 and her total liabilities were listed as $68, 581. She 
completed a financial counseling course as a requirement of her bankruptcy. Her debts 
were discharged in September 2019 (SOR ¶ 1.a: Item 6). The SOR also alleged 13 
delinquent debts incurred by Applicant after her Chapter 7 bankruptcy discharge in 2019. 
The total balance of the post-bankruptcy delinquent debts is approximately $21,697. The 
delinquent debts can be found in credit reports from August 2024 and June 2025 (Items 
4 and 5) 
The debts include a $1,274 delinquent account that was placed for collection (SOR 
¶ 1.b); a $1,232 delinquent cell phone account that was placed for collection (SOR ¶ 1.c), 
a $1,057 delinquent account that was placed for collection (SOR ¶ 1.d); a $985 delinquent 
cell phone account that was placed for collection (SOR ¶ 1.e); an $896 delinquent account 
that was charged off (SOR ¶ 1.f); a $635 delinquent account that was placed for collection 
(SOR ¶ 1. g); and a $ 474 delinquent credit card account that was placed for collection. 
(SOR ¶ 1.h)    
Additional delinquent debts include a $431 delinquent account that was placed for 
collection (SOR ¶ 1.i); a $418 delinquent credit card account that was placed for collection 
(SOR ¶ 1. j), a $156 delinquent account that was placed for collection (SOR ¶ 1. k); a 
delinquent debt with an unknown balance that was charged off (SOR ¶ 1.1); a delinquent 
debt with an unknown balance that was charged off (SOR ¶ 1.m); and a $14,139 voluntary 
automobile repossession that was charged off. (SOR ¶ 1.n) 
In her response to the SOR, Applicant admitted all of the allegations in the S OR. 
In her response, she provided no updated information about her delinquent debts. She 
did not respond the Government’s FORM. A credit report dated June 4, 2025, indicates 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
    
  
   
  
  
     
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
 
    
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
     
    
    
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
 
  
    
the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.m is paid. (Item 5 at 2) This debt is found for Applicant. All 
other debts remain unresolved. 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” (Department of the Navy v. Egan, 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988) ). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” (Egan at 527). 
The President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant 
applicants eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is 
clearly consistent with the national interest to do so.” (EO 10865 § 2) 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the AG. These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, 
recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge applies these 
guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative 
judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An 
administrative judge must consider all available and reliable information about the person, 
past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” (EO 10865 § 
7). Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant has 
not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have established 
for issuing a clearance. Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial 
evidence, conditions in the personal or professional history of the applicant that may 
disqualify the applicant from being eligible for access to classified information. The 
Government has the burden of establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. (Egan, 
484 U.S. at 531). “Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a 
preponderance.” (See v. Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th 
Cir. 1994) ). The guidelines presume a nexus or rational connection between proven 
conduct under any of the criteria listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. 
(ISCR Case No. 15- 01253 at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 20, 2016) ). Once the Government 
establishes a disqualifying condition by substantial evidence, the burden shifts to the 
applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the facts . ( Directive ¶ E3.1.15 ). An 
applicant has the burden of proving a mitigating condition, and the burden of disproving 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
    
    
   
  
  
    
 
    
   
 
 
   
 
  
   
      
   
 
   
 
it never shifts to the Government. (ISCR Case No. 02- 31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 
2005)) 
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent  
with the national interest to grant or continue her  security clearance.”  (ISCR Case No. 01-
20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec.  19,  2002)).  “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  (Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; AG ¶ 2(b))  
A
nalysis  
Guideline F:  Financial Considerations  
The concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one's  means, satisfy debts, and meet financial  
obligations may  indicate poor  self-control, lack of judgment, or
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise  
questions about  an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to  
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial  distress can  also be  
caused or exacerbated by,  and thus can be a possible indicator of, other  
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling,  mental  
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An  
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to  
engage in illegal  or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds.   
 
T
his concern is broader than the possibility that a person might knowingly 
compromise classified information to raise money. It encompasses concerns about a 
person’s self-control, judgment, and other qualities essential to protecting classified 
information. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible, 
unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding classified information. (ISCR 
Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012). 
AG ¶ 19 notes several disqualifying conditions that could raise security concerns. 
The disqualifying conditions that are relevant to Applicant’s case include: 
(a)  inability to satisfy  debts;  and  
(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations. 
AG ¶ 19(a) and AG ¶ 19(c) apply to Applicant’s delinquent debts alleged in SOR 
¶¶ 1.a through 1.n. The total approximate balance of the delinquent debt is $20,139. The 
largest debt is the $14,139 car repossession debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.n. The remaining 
delinquent debts total approximately $7,558.  
AG ¶ 20 describes conditions that could mitigate security concerns. The following 
are potentially applicable in this case: 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
    
    
 
      
   
    
  
 
    
   
 
    
    
  
  
    
   
    
 
  
  
  
  
(a) t
he behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast doubt  
on in the individual’s current reliability,  trustworthiness, or good judgment;   
(b ) t he conditions that resulted in the financial  problem were largely beyond  
the per son's  control (e.g.,  loss of  employment, a business downturn,  
unexpected medical  emergency, a death, divorce or separation, clear  
victimization by  predatory  lending practices,  or identity theft),  and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;   
(c) the individual  has  received or is receiving financial counseling for the  
problem  from a legitimate and credible source, such as a non- profit  
counseling service,  and there are clear indications that the problem is being  
resolved or is under control;  
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good- f aith effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts; and  
(e) the i
ndividual has a reasonable basis to dispute the legitimacy of the 
past-due debt which is the cause of the problem and provides documented 
proof to substantiate the basis of the dispute or provides evidence of actions 
to resolve the issue. 
AG ¶ 20 (c) partially applies because Applicant completed a fi nancial counseling 
course in conjunction with her Chapter 7 bankruptcy. However, this mitigating condition 
is given little weight because Applicant continued to incur delinquent debt after her 
bankruptcy discharge. At the clo se of the record her financial situation remains 
unresolved. 
AG ¶ 20 (d) applies with respect to the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.m because the 
June 2025 credit report indicates that the debt is resolved. 
None of the m itigating conditions apply to the other debts alleged in the SOR . 
Applicant provided no documentation about the status of any of the delinquent debts 
alleged in the SOR. She provided no proof that any payments were made towards any of 
the debts, such as receipts from the creditor, copies of bank statements or cancelled 
checks. Overall, Applicant failed to meet h er burden of proof to mitigate the concerns 
raised under Financial Considerations. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether the granting or continuing 
of national security eligibility is clearly consistent with the interests of national security 
must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration of the 
adjudicative guidelines, each of which is to be evaluated in the context of the whole 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
    
  
   
   
 
  
  
  
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
     
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
person. An administrative judge should consider the nine adjudicative process factors 
listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
I have incorporated my comments under Guideline F in my whole-person analysis, 
and I have considered the factors in AG ¶ 2(d). Applicant failed to provided evidence of 
her efforts to resolve or dispute her delinquent accounts. After weighing the disqualifying 
and mitigating conditions under Guideline F and evaluating all the evidence in the context 
of the whole person, I conclude that Applicant has not mitigated the security concerns 
raised under financial considerations. 
This decision should not be construed as a determination that Applicant cannot or 
will not attain the state of reform necessary for award of a security clearance in the future. 
With a longer track record of financial responsibility, she may be able to demonstrate 
persuasive evidence of her security clearance worthiness. Overall, the record evidence 
leaves me with questions and doubts as to her eligibility and suitability for a security 
clearance at this time. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as  required by Section
E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are:  
 
P
aragraph 1, Guideline F:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  1.a –  1.1, 1.n:  Against Applicant 
Subparagraph 1.m:    For Applicant 
Conclusion  
I conclude that it is not clearly consistent with the interests of national security to 
grant Applicant eligibility for access to classified information. Clearance is denied. 
Erin C. Hogan 
Administrative Judge 
6 