 
  
  
 
                            
 
  
           
             
 
 
    
  
       
  
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
    
  
 
 
     
     
     
 
      
    
 
  
  
   
   
   
______________ 
______________ 
DEPAR
TMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 25-00263 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Tovah A. Minster, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
12/02/2025 
Decision 
HALE, Charles C., Administrative Judge: 
This case involves security concerns raised under Guideline H (Drug Involvement 
and Substance Misuse). Applicant mitigated the security concerns. Eligibility for access 
to classified information is granted. 
Statement  of the Case  
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on July 23, 2024. The 
Department of Defense (DoD) sent her a Statement of Reasons (SOR) dated March 27, 
2025, alleging security concerns under Guideline H . The DoD acted under Executive 
Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 
20, 1960), as amended; D oD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security 
Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the 
adjudicative guidelines (AG) promulgated in Security Executive Agent Directive 4, 
National Security Adjudicative Guidelines (December 10, 2016). 
Applicant answered the SOR on April 29, 2025, and requested a decision on the 
written record without a hearing. Department Counsel issued the Government’s file of 
relevant material (FORM) on May 21, 2025, including documents identified as Items 1 
 
 
    
  
 
     
     
 
 
 
     
      
  
 
        
     
  
   
 
  
  
  
    
 
  
 
 
    
  
     
    
  
 
   
 
     
     
   
  
 
         
     
      
     
 
 
  
through 4. Applicant submitted a Response dated July 9, 2025. I was assigned the case 
on November 24, 2025. 
The SOR , Applicant’s Answer (FORM Items 1 and 2) , and her July 9, 2025 
Response are the pleadings in the case. FORM Items 3 through 4 are admitted into 
evidence without objection. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is a 45- year-old senior clinical research associate who has worked for 
her clearance sponsor since 2021. She has never held a security clearance. She is single, 
with no children. She holds a doctorate and two bachelor’s degrees. (Item 3.) 
Applicant’s employer does not permit use of illegal drugs but defines an illegal drug 
as, “[a]ny drug not legally obtained or obtainable. Unlawful possession of a controlled 
substance not prescribed by a physician is considered illegal drug use. ” A controlled 
substance is defined by her employer as: 
A drug which may be approved by the federal Food & Drug Administration 
for medical uses; one prescribed to a patient by medical physician; or an 
illegal drug. Categories of controlled substances include narcotics, 
depressants, stimulants, hallucinogens and cannabis. (Item 4 at 33.) 
Illicit drugs are defined as: 
Includes all drugs, narcotics, and intoxicants for which possession or 
misuse is illegal under federal law, and includes prescription medications 
for which the individual does not have a valid prescription. The deliberate 
use of prescription medications and/or over-the-counter drugs in a manner 
inconsistent with dosing directions, and in a manner which may result in 
impairment, is considered illicit drug use. In addition, the use of chemical 
intoxicants for other than a legitimate and therapeutic purpose is considered 
illicit drug use. (Item 4 at 33.) 
In Applicant’s SOR Answer , she admits the sole allegation that she used and 
purchased marijuana (THC) with varying frequency from about November 2020 to about 
February 2025. She stated in Answer, “I admit to using marijuana for insomnia due to 
menstrual cycle hormonal fluctuations.” 
Applicant self-disclosed her marijuana use on her 2024 SCA. In acknowledging 
her illegal drug use on her SCA she wrote, “I use DELTA 9 THC edibles, which I purchase 
legally, and CBD, also legally purchased, as sleep aids. I use it to help with insomnia 
related to premenstrual syndrome, so I use about 3- 4 nights a month.” She explained 
further that “[i]f I am told I am not allowed to use it with a security clearance, then I will not 
use it. If I need to get a medical use exemption to continue using it, then I will obtain one.” 
(Item 3 at 35; Answer.) 
2 
 
 
  
   
  
        
     
    
    
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
  
     
  
 
   
    
   
   
      
    
   
  
      
 
 
      
  
  
     
    
  
      
During her security clearance interview, Applicant confirmed her SCA statements. 
She noted she has never been involved in any illegal purchase of marijuana product. She 
never has felt dependent on it, and she has never tested positive on any drug test. She 
told the investigator she would continue to use marijuana again in the future, unless it is 
determined that she cannot use marijuana sleep aids while holding a security clearance. 
(Item 4.) In her Response to the FORM she stated: 
At the time of completing my application and during the October 2024 
interview, it was not clearly communicated to me that abstaining from THC 
was a formal condition of clearance. As a result, I continued using it for 
insomnia treatment. 
However, upon receiving the interrogatory package in early March 2025, it 
became clear that continued THC use would be incompatible with holding 
a security clearance. I immediately ceased all THC use, with the last 
instance occurring during the premenstrual phase of my February 2025 
menstrual cycle. I have not used THC since, and I do not intend to use it 
again in the future. 
I understand and fully respect the federal government’s position on THC 
use, regardless of evolving state laws. I am committed to upholding the 
integrity, reliability, and trustworthiness expected of those granted access 
to sensitive information. My past use was disclosed honestly and 
transparently, and I hope it demonstrates my willingness to comply fully with 
all expectations now and moving forward. (Response.) 
Applicant voluntarily disclosed her actions involving marijuana on her SCA and 
fully discussed them during h er security clearance interview. (Item 3; Item 4.) She has 
cooperated throughout the security clearance process. The evidence available shows her 
involvement with marijuana is limited in scope and nature and was never for a recreational 
purpose. She has stopped consistent with her representations throughout her security 
clearance application process. The security clearance interview does not read consistent 
with a person stating an intent to use marijuana in the future while holding a security 
clearance, rather it appears consistent with a statement that she has no intention to use 
marijuana regardless of the basis. (Item 3; Item 4; Answer; Response.) 
Policies  
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan , 
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to 
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an 
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The 
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants 
eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2. 
3 
 
 
 
 
   
   
    
   
      
    
 
     
  
  
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
    
   
  
 
   
   
 
  
 
 
  
   
     
 
 
 
 
 
Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the 
criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules 
of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge 
applies these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An 
administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense 
decision. An a dministrative judge must consider all available and reliable information 
about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. 
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with 
access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and 
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the 
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in 
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865 
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant 
has not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have 
established for issuing a clearance. 
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the 
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from 
being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of 
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan , 484 U.S. at 531. 
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. 
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The g uidelines 
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria 
listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 15-01253 at 3 
(App. Bd. Apr. 20, 2016). 
Once the  G overnment establishes a disqualifying condition  by substantial  
evidence,  the burden  shifts to the applicant to rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate the 
facts. Directive  ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of  proving a mitigating condition,  
and the burden of disproving it  never shifts to the  Government.  See  ISCR Case No.  02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep.  22,  2005).   
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent  
with the national interest to grant or continue  his security clearance.”  ISCR Case No.  01-
20700 at  3 (App. Bd.  Dec. 19, 2002).  “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if  
they  must, on the side of denials.”  Egan, 484 U.S. at 531.  
Analysis  
4 
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
     
     
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
  
    
 
 
  
 
   
 
Guideline H, Dr ug Involvement  and Substance Misuse  
The conc
ern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of 
prescription and non- prescription drugs, and the use of other substances 
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner 
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions about an 
individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may 
lead to physical or psychological impairment and because it raises 
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, 
and regulations. Controlled substance means any “controlled substance” as 
defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in 
this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. 
Applicant’s admissions in her SCA, security clearance interview, and Answer are 
sufficient to raise the following disqualifying conditions under this guideline: AG ¶ 25: 
           (a): any substance misuse (see above definition);  an
 d  
(c)
:  illegal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation,  
proces
sing,  manufacture, purchase, sale,  or distribution; or possession of  
drug paraphernalia.   
The foll
owing mitigating conditions are potentially applicable under AG ¶ 26: 
(a):  the behavior  happene d so long ago, was so infrequent, or  happened  
under such c ircumstances that it is unlikely to recur  or does not cast doubt  
on the individual's current  reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment;  and  
(b): the individual acknowledges  his or  her drug involvement and substance  
misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and  
has established a pattern of abstinence, including but not limited to: (1)  
disassociation from drug- using associates  and contacts; (2) changing or  
avoiding the environment where drugs were used; and (3)  providing a  
signed statement of  intent to abstain from all drug involvement and  
substance misuse, acknowledging that  any future involvement or  misuse is  
grounds  for revocation of national security  eligibility.  
The Appe
al Board provided a detailed discussion of the mitigating conditions 
pertaining to marijuana possessions and use: 
In recognition of the changing landscape of marijuana law and in 
consideration of the Director of National Intelligence’s Clarifying Guidance 
Concerning Marijuana, the Board has noted that significant factual and legal 
differences may exist between an applicant’s state-compliant marijuana use 
5 
 
 
   
   
    
 
    
  
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
     
 
  
  
 
    
 
 
   
 
and use of other illegal drugs, holding that such differences are an important 
aspect of the case that a reasonable person would expect to be addressed. 
See ISCR Case No. 22 -02132 at 3 (App. Bd. Oct. 27, 2023). In initial 
eligibility determinations, if the record reflects such differences, the judge 
must articulate a rational basis for why, after consideration of those 
differences and the Clarifying Guidance, the conduct continues to cast 
doubt on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, and g ood 
judgment. 
ISCR Case No. 23-02402 at 4 (App. Bd. Feb. 19, 2025) (internal footnotes omitted). 
The SecEA promulgated clarifying guidance concerning marijuana- related issues 
in security clearance adjudications the Appeal Board cited states as follows: 
[Federal]  agencies  are instructed that prior recreational  marijuana use by  
an individual may be relevant to adjudications but not determinative. The  
SecEA has  provided direction in [the adjudicative guidelines] to agencies  
that requires  them  to use a “whol e-person concept.” This requires  
adjudicators  to carefully weigh a few variables in an individual’s  life to  
determine whether that individual’s behavior raises a security concern, if  at  
all, and whether  that concern has been mitigated such that the individual  
may now receive a favorable adjudicative determination. Relevant  
mitigations include, but are not limited to,  frequency  of  use and whether the  
individual can demonstrate that future use is  unlikely to recur, including by  
signing an attestation or  other  such appropriate mitigation. Additionally, in  
light of the long-standing federal law and policy prohibiting illegal drug use  
while occupying a sensitive position or  holding a security clearance,  
agencies are encouraged to advise prospective national security workforce  
employees that they should refrain from any future marijuana use upon  
initiation of the national security vetting process, which commences once  
the individual signs the certification contained  in t he Standard Form 86 (SF-
86),  Questionnaire for National Security Positions.  
SecEA Guidance at 2 (quoted in ISCR Case No. 20-02974 at 3-4 (App. Bd. Feb. 1, 2022)). 
The DOHA Appeal Board has cited the importance of consideration of “the 
changing landscape of marijuana law and . . . of the Director of National Intelligence’s 
Clarifying Guidance Concerning Marijuana.” ISCR Case No. 23-02402 at 4 (App. Bd. Feb. 
19, 2025). See also ISCR Case No. 24 -00914 at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 9, 2025) (noting the 
“evolving landscape of marijuana law and policy,” “the resulting increasing prevalence of 
marijuana use,” and in some instances “recreational marijuana use deserves less, or even 
no negative inference on judgment.”). 
The Appeal  Board has “never established a ‘bright line’ rule as to recency  of  drug  
use. The extent to which security concerns  may  have become attenuated through the  
passage of  time is a question that must be resolved based on the evidence as a whole.”  
6 
 
 
 
  
   
 
   
  
     
    
  
 
   
  
 
    
   
 
     
    
    
  
 
     
        
   
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
   
  
  
  
  
      
 
  
   
 
    
      
See  ISCR Case No. 14-01847 at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 9,  2015).  See also  ISCR Case No.  24-
01307 at 5 (App. Bd.  July 17, 2025) (stating same).  
Several factors are important in the assessment of mitigation of possession and 
use of illegal drugs: the duration of abstinence; state law; company policy; use after 
completion of an SCA; use while holding a sensitive position; use while having access to 
classified information; types of other illegal drugs used; continued association with drug 
users; broken promises not to use in the future; and promises not to use in the future. 
See ISCR 24 -01001 (App. Bd. Apr. 22, 2025) (affirming denial of security clearance; 
factors: one year of abstinence from marijuana use; used marijuana after completion of 
an SCA; and used marijuana after promising not to use marijuana on SCA and during an 
OPM interview); ISCR Case No. 24 -01005 (App. Bd. Apr. 11, 2025) (denial of security 
clearance reversed; factors: two years of abstinence from marijuana use; no marijuana 
use while holding a security clearance or occupying sensitive position; marijuana 
possession and use were not illegal under state law; no marijuana use after notice that 
marijuana use was federally illegal; and no evidence of broken promises not to use 
marijuana). 
Applicant used marijuana three or four times a month during her menstrual cycle 
for just over four years and stopped in February 2025 when the Government’s FORM 
made her fully aware her basis for use was not legal under Federal law. There is no 
evidence she engaged in recreational marijuana use. 
AG ¶ 26( a) is established for SOR ¶ 1.a. While Applicant recognized marijuana 
was illegal Federally, she believed her limited use for issues during her menstrual cycle, 
with products purchased legally in her state, would not be problematic . There is no 
evidence in the record that she understood her marijuana use for menstrual issues would 
be problematic at the time and there was no evidence to the contrary. The Appeal Board 
has noted that: 
Applicants cannot be expected to be constitutional law experts or versed in 
the concept of Federal supremacy. The ambiguity between state and 
Federal drug laws and the ensuing confusion was addressed by the 
Security Executive Agent in December 2021 in “Clarifying Guidance 
Concerning Marijuana for Agencies Conducting Adjudications of Persons 
Proposed for Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to 
Hold a Sensitive Position” (SecEA Clarif ying Guidance). Relevant to the 
topic of notice, the Guidance encourages employers “to advise prospective 
national security workforce employees that they should refrain from any 
future marijuana use upon initiation of the national security vetting process, 
which commences once the individual signs the certification contained in 
the [SCA].” SecEA Guidance at 2. Implicit in this guidance is the recognition 
that the SCA itself no longer puts applicants on notice and that employers 
should affirmatively be providing notice to prospective employees. The 
SecEA’s guidance to employers, however, cannot be presumed to have 
been followed. See ISCR Case No. 23-02476 at 5 (App. Bd. May 1, 2024). 
7 
 
 
 
   
    
  
  
     
     
     
      
    
 
     
  
 
     
          
    
    
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
 
   
 
 
    
  
    
     
      
   
The Appeal Board cites several factors as important in weighing the assessment 
of mitigation of possession and use of illegal drugs: the duration of abstinence; state law; 
company policy; use after completion of an SCA; use while holding a sensitive position; 
use while having access to classified information; types of other illegal drugs used; 
continued association with drug users; broken promises not to use in the future; and 
promises not to use in the future. See ISCR 24-01001 (App. Bd. Apr. 22, 2025) I find the 
consistency of Applicant’s statements throughout the securit y clearance application 
process regarding the basis for her marijuana use , which was not for recreational 
purposes; that the marijuana was legally purchased; the general nature of the language 
of her company’s drug policy; that this was her first security clearance application; and 
her Response reflects her willingness to comply with laws, rules, or regulations. See ISCR 
Case No. 20-02974 at 6 (App. Bd. Feb. 1, 2022). 
AG ¶ 26(b) is established for SOR ¶ 1.a. Applicant voluntarily disclosed her actions 
on her SCA. I find that it is relevant that this is her first SCA. She acknowledges her past 
actions. In her Response she clearly states she will no longer use any marijuana products 
in the future. Her Response reflects her understanding that any future involvement in 
marijuana is grounds for revocation of a security clearance. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole- person concept. In applying the whole-
person concept, an administrative judge must evaluate an applicant’s eligibility for a 
security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct and all relevant 
circumstances. An administrative judge should consider the nine adjudicative process 
factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s  age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5) the extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
I have incorporated my comments under Guideline H in my whole-person analysis 
and applied the adjudicative factors in AG ¶ 2(d). I considered Applicant's admissions and 
explanations, including her explanation for why she started using marijuana. Applicant’s 
responses in her SCA, security interview, Answer, and Response regarding her marijuana 
involvement reflect her recognition that she must not use marijuana. After weighing the 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions under Guideline H and evaluating all the evidence 
8 
 
 
  
    
 
 
   
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
in the context of the whole person, I conclude Applicant has mitigated the security 
concerns raised by her drug involvement. 
Formal  Findings  
I make the following formal findings on the allegations in the SOR: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline H:    F
 OR APPLICANT  
For  Applicant      Subparagraph 1.a:  
Conclusion  
I c
onclude that it is clearly consistent with the national security interests of the 
United States to grant Applicant eligibility for access to classified information. Clearance 
is granted. 
Charles C. Hale 
Administrative Judge 
9 