 
 
 
                                                              
                         
          
           
             
 
 
    
  
        
      
   
 
   
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
      
   
 
     
 
    
      
  
    
    
    
   
  
 
      
    
   
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 25-00088 
Appearances  
For Government: Carroll J. Connelley, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
11/19/2025 
Decision 
BORGSTROM, Eric H., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not mitigate the drug involvement and substance misuse or the 
personal conduct security concerns . Eligibility for access to classified information is 
denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
On May 20, 2025, the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) 
issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns under 
Guideline E (personal conduct) and Guideline H (drug involvement and substance 
misuse). The DCSA acted under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified 
Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of Defense 
(DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review 
Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the adjudicative guidelines (AG) 
implemented by the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
In Applicant’s May 28, 2025 response to the SOR (Answer) , he admitted, with 
explanations, all five allegations. He characterized his response on his security clearance 
application (e-QIP) as “inaccurate” and stated that he did not intend “to be dishonest or 
1 
 
 
    
 
 
   
 
   
  
  
 
  
     
     
     
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
     
   
 
 
    
      
    
   
   
 
 
   
    
   
 
 
 
  
    
  
 
  
misleading.” He did not attach any documentary evidence. He requested a hearing before 
a Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) administrative judge. (Answer) 
On July 18, 2025, the Government was ready to proceed to a hearing. By email 
dated September 15, 2025, Applicant requested an expedited hearing and eligibility 
determination. I was assigned this case on September 16, 2023. On September 16, 2023, 
a notice was issued scheduling the hearing for September 23, 2025, by video 
teleconference. The hearing proceeded as scheduled. 
During the hearing, Applicant confirmed his waiver of the 15- day notice 
requirement. The Government proffered two evidentiary exhibits, which I admitted as 
Government Exhibits (GE) 1 and 2, without objection. Applicant testified and did not 
submit any documentary evidence. I held the record open until September 30, 2025, to 
give Applicant the opportunity to provide any other additional evidence. I received the 
transcript (Tr.) on September 24, 2025. Due to the government shutdown, Applicant’s 
post-hearing submission, Applicant Exhibit (AE) A, was received and admitted, without 
objection, on November 17, 2025. The record closed on November 17, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 24 years old. He graduated from high school in June 2020, and he 
earned his bachelor’s degree in May 2024. He has never been married and does not have 
any children. Since August 2024, he has been employed full time as a software engineer 
for a DOD contractor. (Tr. 20-21, 45) 
The SOR alleges drug involvement and substance misuse security concerns 
arising from Applicant’s illegal use (SOR ¶ 2.a.) and purchase (SOR ¶ 2.b.) of marijuana, 
illegal use and purchase of lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) (SOR ¶ 2.c.), and illegal use 
and purchase of Adderall, a prescription medication (SOR ¶ 2.d.). The SOR also alleges 
personal conduct security concerns based on Applicant’s omissions on his security 
clearance application. 
On June 24, 2024, Applicant completed and certified an Electronic Questionnaire 
for Investigations Processing (e-QIP). Under Section 23 – Illegal Drugs or Drug Activity, 
he responded “YES” to the following question: 
In the last seven (7) years, have you illegally used any drugs or controlled  
substances? Use of  a drug or controlled  substance includes injecting,
snorting, inhaling, swallowing,  experimenting  with or otherwise consuming  
any drug or controlled substance  
 
H
e reported that he used marijuana twice a week from July 2020 to October 202 1, and 
he expressed his intent not to use marijuana in the future. He did not report any other 
illegal drug use or the purchase of any illegal drugs. 
Under Section 23, he responded “NO” to the following questions: 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
    
   
  
 
   
     
      
    
     
     
      
 
  
  
  
    
   
 
Do you have an additional instance(s) of illegal use of a drug or controlled  
substance to enter?  
In the last seven (7) years, have you  been involved in the illegal purchase,
manufacture, cultivation, trafficking, production, transfer, shipping,
receiving,  handling or  sale of any drug or controlled substance?  
 
 
I
n the last seven (7) years have you intentionally engaged in the misuse of  
prescription drugs, regardless of whether or  not the drugs were prescribed  
to you or someone else?  
On September 18, 2024, Applicant was interviewed by  an authorized investigator  
on behalf  of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM).  He admitted that he stopped 
using marijuana following his  October 2021 alcohol arrest and then resumed his
marijuana use after his court proceedings  and mandatory  drug testing had concluded  in  
September 2022. During the interview,  he reported that he used marijuana monthly  from 
September 2022 to May 2024. He ceased his marijuana use in anticipation of  his pre-
employment drug  testing with his current  employer. He confirmed that he did not intend  
to use marijuana in the future. During his OPM interview, he admitted that  he had used  
LSD once in December 2021.  He also  admitted using a prescription drug, Adderall,
without a prescription approximately eight times between December 2020 and December  
2021, while studying for exams. He illegally purchased this medication from a classmate.  
(GE 2)  
 
 
W
hen confronted by the OPM investigator about his omitted marijuana and LSD 
use on his e-QIP, Applicant had no explanation for his omitted marijuana use. As to his 
omitted LSD use, he explained that he had experienced some technical problems when 
completing the e-QIP and had to re -enter his responses. On March 10, 2025, Applicant 
confirmed the accuracy of the OPM interview summary regarding his illegal drug use and 
e-QIP omissions. (GE 2) 
In his March 13, 2025 response to DOHA interrogatories, Applicant admitted using 
marijuana twice a week between July 2019 and May 2024 (SOR ¶ 2.a.); LSD in July 2020 
and December 2021 (SOR ¶ 2.c.); and Adderall without a prescription eight times 
between May 2021 and February 2023 (SOR ¶ 2.d.). He admitted purchasing marijuana 
twice a month between January 2019 and February 2024 (SOR ¶ 2.b.); LSD in July 2020 
and December 2021 (SOR ¶ 2.c.); and Adderall without a prescription approximately 6 to 
10 times between May 2021 and February 2023 (SOR ¶ 2.d.). (GE 2) 
At the hearing, Applicant testified that he was charged with driving under the 
influence in October 2021. Prior to his arrest, he had consumed alcohol underage and 
had used marijuana. In February 2022, he pled guilty and was sentenced to an 
Accelerated Rehabilitation Diversion (ARD) program that included mandatory drug testing 
and approximately eight substance abuse counseling sessions. He tested negative during 
all drug testing, and he was released from ARD in September 2022. He adhered to the 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
     
   
      
     
     
 
   
     
   
  
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
    
  
  
      
   
ARD prohibitions against alcohol and illegal drug use while in the program . (Tr. 24-28, 
42-43) 
Applicant did not  use marijuana between February 2022 and September 2022;  
however, he resumed twice weekly  marijuana use from September 2022 to May  2024.  
He confirmed that  he stopped using marijuana in May  2024,  in anticipation of pre-
employment  drug testing. He remains subject to random drug testing through  his 
employer,  a DOD contractor. He has  not used  marijuana s ince May 2024  nor been tested  
since his  June 2024 pre-employment drug test.  (Tr. 28-30, 42-43, 46-47)  
At the hearing, Applicant was confronted about reporting on his e-QIP that he last 
used marijuana in October 2021. He responded, “I have no answer for that, sir.” He then 
admitted that he had not forgotten about his more recent marijuana usage and that he 
intentionally omitted his marijuana use between September 2022 and May 2024. He 
further admitted that he omitted the more recent marijuana usage due to the potential 
negative impact to his clearance eligibility. He explained that he had, in fact, reported his 
LSD and use of Adderall without a prescription on his e- QIP but had encountered 
technical problems that deleted or had not retained his responses. (Tr. 31-32, 36-37, 48) 
At the hearing, Applicant clarified that he rarely used marijuana in high school, and 
his twice weekly marijuana use occurred during college. He admitted that he had illegally 
purchased marijuana, LSD, and Adderall , as delineated in his response to DOHA 
interrogatories. He further admitted his LSD and Adderall use consistent with his 
response to the DOHA interrogatories. At the time he used Adderall, he was aware that 
it was illegal to use a prescription medication without a prescription. (Tr. 34-39, 44, 49, 
51-52) 
Applicant testified that his parents and supervisor are aware of his illegal drug use; 
however, he did not provide any corroborating evidence. He admitted that while his 
supervisor and co-workers are aware of the falsification allegation, he explained to them 
that he had made “mistakes” on his e- QIP and had not admitted his deliberate 
falsifications. (Tr. 40, 48-49) 
Whole Person  
Applicant’s supervisor submitted a character -reference letter in support of his 
clearance eligibility. He praised Applicant’s work performance as excellent, 
accountability, and increased maturity. (AE A) 
Policies 
When evaluating an applicant ’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
4 
 
 
 
 
    
 
  
  
    
      
 
 
 
  
   
 
     
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
 
  
  
 
   
 
    
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to sensitive information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
sensitive information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard sensitive informat ion. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of sensitive information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline E: Personal Conduct  
The concern under this guideline is set out in AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor,  dishonesty or  
unwillingness  to comply with  rules and regulations can raise questions  
about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect  
classified or sensitive information. .  . .  
5 
 
 
  
  
 
 
    
   
  
 
 
     
     
    
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
    
  
  
   
   
   
  
   
  
     
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 16. The following disqualifying condition is potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) deliberate omission, concealment,  or f
 alsification of relevant facts from  
any personnel  security questionnaire, personal  history  statement,  or similar  
form  used to conduct investigations, determine employment qualifications,  
award benefits or  status, determine national security eligibility or  
trustworthiness, or  award fiduciary responsibilities.  
At t
he hearing, Applicant admitted that he deliberately falsified his response on the 
June 2024 e-QIP, in response to Section 23. Specifically, he intentionally omitted the span 
of his marijuana use and purchase from September 2022 to May 2024. AG ¶ 16(a) 
applies. 
Applicant testified that he listed his illegal use and purchase of LSD and Adderall 
on his e- QIP, but that the information was deleted or not retained as he filled out the 
questionnaire. These omissions were not deliberate. AG ¶ 16(a) does not apply. 
The following personal conduct mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 17 are potentially 
relevant: 
(a) the individual made prompt, good- faith efforts to correct the omission,  
concealment,  or falsification before being confronted with the facts;  and  
(c) the offense is so minor, or so much time has passed or the behavior is 
so infrequent, or it happened under such unique circumstances that it is 
unlikely to recur and does not cast doubt on the individual’s reliability, 
trustworthiness, or good judgment. 
During his OPM interview, when first confronted about his omitted marijuana use 
and purchase on his e- QIP, Applicant responded that he had no explanation. He later 
claimed to have made a “ mistake.” In his Answer, he also characterized his omitted 
marijuana use as “inaccurate” and that he did not intend “to be dishonest or misleading.” 
Even at the hearing, he initially claimed to have made a “mistake,” and, upon further 
questioning, he admitted that he intentionally omitted the required information due to i ts 
potentially negative impact on his clearance eligibility. He deliberately falsified his security 
questionnaire and failed to take responsibility for his intentional omissions until his 
security clearance hearing. Such conduct casts doubt on his reliability, trustworthiness, 
and judgment. None of the personal conduct mitigating conditions apply. 
Guideline H: Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse  
The security concern for drug involvement is set out in AG ¶ 24: 
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of
prescription an d non-prescription drugs, and  the use of other substances  
 
6 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
   
 
   
 
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
     
  
 
  
 
      
     
  
 
   
   
 
that cause physical  or mental impairment or are used in a manner  
inconsistent with their intended purpose can raise questions  about an  
individual’s reliability  and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may  
lead to physical  or psychological impairment  and because it raises  
questions about  a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules,  
and regulations.  Controlled substance  means any “controlled substance” as  
defined in 21 U.S.C. 802.  Substance misuse  is the generic term adopted in  
this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above.  
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 25. The following are potentially applicable: 
(a)  any  s
ubstance misuse;  and  
(c) il
legal possession of a controlled substance, including cultivation, 
processing, manufacture, purchase, sale, or distribution; or possession of 
drug paraphernalia. 
Marijuana is a Schedule I controlled substance under Federal law pursuant to Title 
21, Section 812 of the United States Code. Schedule I drugs are those which have a high 
potential for abuse; have no currently accepted medical use in treatment in the Unite d 
States; and lack accepted safety for use of the drug under medical supervision. Section 
844 under Title 21 of the United States Code makes it unlawful for any person to 
knowingly or intentionally possess a controlled substance not obtained pursuant to a valid 
prescription. 
On October 25, 2014, the then Director of National Intelligence (DNI) issued 
guidance that changes to laws by some states and the District of Columbia to legalize or 
decriminalize the recreational use of marijuana do not alter existing Federal law or the 
National Security Adjudicative Guidelines, and that an individual’s disregard of Federal 
law pertaining to the use, sale, or manufacture of marijuana remains adjudicatively 
relevant in national security eligibility determinations. 
On December 21, 2021, the then DNI issued clarifying guidance concerning 
marijuana, noting that prior recreational use of marijuana by an individual may be relevant 
to security adjudications, but is not determinative in the whole- person evaluation. 
Relevant factors in mitigation include the frequency of use and whether the individual can 
demonstrate that future use is unlikely to recur. 
Applicant admitted his illegal purchase and use of marijuana, LSD, and Adderall. 
AG ¶¶ 25(a) and 25(c) apply. All of these controlled substances were illegal in Applicant’s 
state of residence. 
Conditions that could mitigate the drug involvement security concerns are provided 
under AG ¶ 26. The following are potentially applicable: 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
     
   
   
    
      
   
   
   
 
 
 
   
    
     
     
 
  
 
  
    
 
  
 
 
      
   
   
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent,  or
  happened  
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur  or does not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability,  trustworthiness,  or good judgment;  and  
(b) the individual acknowledges  hi s or her drug involvement and substance  
misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and  
has established a pattern of  abstinence, including, but not limited to:  
(1) disassociation from drug-us ing associates and contacts;  
(2) changing or  av oiding the environment where drugs were used;  
and  
(3) prov
iding a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug 
involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future 
involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation of national security 
eligibility. 
Applicant was fully aware that his purchase and use of these controlled substances 
was illegal. Even after an alcohol arrest and counseling, he resumed his frequent 
marijuana use. Over the course of his time in college, he used illegal drugs or misused a 
prescription drug on over 100 total occasions. He has not used illegal drugs since May 
2024, and he has expressed his intent to abstain from illegal drugs in the future. Given 
the frequency of Applicant’s illegal purchase and use of illegal drugs and that multiple 
controlled substances were involved, evidence of a longer period of abstinence is 
required. He did not mitigate the drug involvement and substance misuse security 
concerns. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information by considering the totality of the 
applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should 
consider the nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; ( 5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
8 
 
 
  
   
     
  
  
  
   
 
   
 
      
    
   
      
 
 
      
    
  
     
 
     
 
       
 
     
 
  
   
     
       
 
 
 
 
 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. I considered the potentially 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances 
surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under Guideline E, Guideline 
H, and the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) in this whole-person analysis. 
While Applicant’s drug involvement during college may not be uncommon, the 
frequency of his use and purchase of marijuana, LSD, and Adderall without a prescription 
does not reflect the reliability, good judgment, and adherence to rules and regulations 
required of those entrusted to safeguard classified information. More importantly, in 
anticipation of his employment with a DOD contractor, Applicant deliberately falsified his 
e-QIP. Only at the hearing did he finally admit that he intentionally omitted his more recent 
marijuana use. With candor, a greater passage of time , and continued abstinence, he 
may be able to mitigate those concerns, but, at present, Applicant has not mitigated the 
personal conduct or the drug involvement and substance misuse security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1, Guideline E:  AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraph 1.a.:   Against Applicant 
Paragraph 2, Guideline H: AGAINST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs  2.a.-2.d.:  Against Applicant 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, I conclude 
that it is not clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant Applicant ’s 
eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Eric H. Borgstrom 
Administrative Judge 
9 