 
 
                                                              
 
 
                                                                                                                    
          
           
             
 
 
 
 
    
  
       
     
  
   
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
      
   
    
    
     
     
    
 
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEP
ARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: ) 
) 
) ISCR Case No. 25-00704 
) 
) 
Applicant for Security Clearance ) 
Appearances  
For Government: Aubrey De Angelis, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
12/11/2025 
Decision 
Lokey Anderson, Darlene D., Administrative Judge: 
Statement of the Case  
On October 10, 2022, Applicant submitted a security clearance application (e-QIP). 
(Government Exhibit 1.) On July 23, 2025, the Department of Defense Consolidated 
Adjudications Facility (DoD CAF) issued Applicant a Statement of Reasons (SOR), 
detailing security concerns under Guideline G, Alcohol Consumption. The action was 
taken under Executive Order (EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within 
Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DoD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial 
Personnel Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended 
(Directive); and the Adjudicative Guidelines (AG) effective within the DoD after June 8, 
2017. 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
       
    
  
     
  
  
     
   
    
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
      
 
   
   
 
 
 
    
   
 
    
   
      
    
 
  
     
 
Applicant answered the SOR on a date uncertain, and requested a hearing before 
an administrative judge.  He also submitted a Supplemental Response to the SOR on 
August 20, 2025.  The case was assigned to me on August 4, 2025.  The Defense Office 
of Hearings and Appeals issued a notice of hearing on August 5, 2025, an d the hearing 
was convened as scheduled on September 17, 2025.  The Government offered four 
exhibits, referred to as Government Exhibits 1 through 4, which were admitted without 
objection. The Applicant testified on his own behalf and offered eight exhibits, which were 
admitted into evidence as Applicant’s Exhibits A through H, without  objection.  He testified 
on his own behalf. DOHA received the transcript of the hearing (Tr.) on September 29, 
2025. This decision was delayed when all administrative judges were furloughed from 
October 1 through November 12, 2025, during a federal government shutdown due to a 
lapse in federal funding. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 35 years old.  He is married and has two sons, ages 11 and 13.  He 
has worked as a DoD civilian employee for about seven years, and for a Federal 
contractor for about 3 and ½ years.  He began working for his current employer, a defense 
contractor, as an IT Project Manager, about a year ago. Applicant has held a security 
clearance for ten years and is seeking to retain his security clearance in connection with 
his employment. In his answer, Applicant denies with explanations the two allegations 
set forth in the SOR. 
Guideline G: Alcohol  Consumption  
The Government alleges that  Applicant  engages in excessive alcohol consumption  
that can lead to the exercise of  questionable  judgment  or the failure to control impulses,  
and can raise questions about  his reliability and trustworthiness.   
Applicant has a history of alcohol consumption at times in excess and to the point 
of intoxication from about November 2018 until at least December 2024.  He stated that 
he first started consuming alcohol, mainly beer, at the age of 20.  He usually drank with 
friends at their homes.  As time passed, the drinks varied between beer and liquor, and 
his alcohol intake increased. At some point, Applicant’s excessive drinking became an 
addiction.  His drinking has never presented any issues at work, because he has never 
been under the influence of alcohol at work. 
Applicant has no history of alcohol-related arrests or any other legal issues due to 
his drinking, besides a charge for Minor in Possession of Alcohol in either 2010 or 2015. 
He explained that he was at a concert with friends and was charged with underag ed 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
         
 
   
        
      
    
   
 
  
  
    
 
 
 
    
    
  
    
   
     
  
  
  
  
 
    
      
              
 
       
  
drinking.  He received a fine for this violation. He also explained that in November 2018, 
after binge drinking at a bar with friends, he was waiting for a ride to pick him up when he 
passed out at a gas station.  The police were called, but Applicant’s “ride” showed up and 
took him home.  Nothing became of this incident. 
Applicant testified that his past drinking never impacted his ability to be productive 
at work. Although his drinking was never problematic for him at work, it did bring serious 
issues to him at home with his wife.  He noticed that he was using alcohol to cope with 
marital problems that he did not believe were healthy.  He also stated that he did not like 
the father that he was becoming.  About a year before he decided to seek treatment in 
2019, he was consuming alcohol several times a week, a lot heavier than usual.  He also 
had to call in sick to work about 3 or 4 times because he had been drinking the night 
before, and he did not want to be “hung over” or sick at work.  To properly address this 
problem, he sought out treatment for his alcohol abuse. 
In October 2019, Applicant voluntarily self-admitted himself into a treatment center  
for medically supervised detoxification from alcohol.  (Government Exhibit 4.)  He believes  
that he  may  have also received treatment  for his related depression and anxiet y.  He  
stated that he recognized that he needed to make lasting changes with his habitual  
drinking,  not just for his well-being,  but for  his family and his future.  During his four-day-
stay at this treatment center he was diagnosed with Alcohol  Dependence.   The 
Government  alleges that he failed t o follow treatment  recommendation to abstain from  
alcohol, and attend an intensive outpatient  program or residential  treatment facility.        
During his treatment, Applicant underwent medically supervised detoxification, an 
alcohol assessment, daily therapeutic group sessions, and individual counseling. 
(Government Exhibit 4.)  He testified that he was not sure if they recommended that he 
completely abstain from the use of alcohol, but he did completely abstain for a year or so 
following his treatment program.  He does not believe that they recommended an 
intensive inpatient treatment program or residential program for him.  Following his 
inpatient treatment, he remembers that when he returned to work, he was required to talk 
with a psychologist, attend Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) meetings, and seek professional 
counseling, which he did and continued.  He initially started attending AA meetings, but 
stopped when he and his wife started marital counseling, since his problem with alcohol 
centered around his relationship with his wife and he wanted to work to keep their 
relationship together. He completed 18 therapy sessions from 2020 to 2021.  (Applicant’s 
Exhibit B.)  During this treatment, he learned the trigger points in his life that caused him 
to drink alcohol excessively, and he now knows how to avoid them. 
After abstaining from alcohol for about a year or so, Applicant started drinking 
occasionally by the end of 2020.  He described this drinking as up to 4 drinks once a 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
      
    
        
    
    
     
 
     
  
 
    
     
         
  
  
  
      
 
      
   
   
 
    
 
    
 
   
      
    
 
     
     
     
    
       
     
     
      
 
 
month or once every two months.  He stated that he is now very careful about his alcohol 
consumption.  Most of the time he does not consume alcohol at all, and he does not feel 
the need to drink. The last time he consumed alcohol was on July 4, 2024, when he had 
2 beers. He last drank to the point of intoxication at the end of 2024, and before that it 
did not happen since before he entered treatment.  He has not experienced a blackout 
since sometime before he entered treatment.  Applicant does admit that five drinks does 
not get him to the point of intoxication. 
Following his four-day treatment program for Alcohol Dependence, Applicant has 
continued to receive ongoing treatment , counseling, and therapy, from his primary care 
physician and his psychiatrist for various diagnoses.  Applicant has been treated for 
conditions involves marital counseling, Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) 
and Bi-Polar Disorder, Depression, and Anxiety, that all seem to overlap or incorporate 
his alcohol problem of the past.  (Applicant’s Exhibits A, B, and C.) Information from his 
treating psychiatrist confirms that since December 2022 he has maintained full adherence 
to his treatment program and his medications for his medical conditions, with s table 
judgment, attention and functioning.  There have been no episodes of alcohol intoxication 
or behavioral concerns during his care.  (Applicant’s Exhibit A.) 
During his employment as a civilian for the DoD, Applicant received outstanding 
performance ratings.  (Applicant’s Exhibit C.)  In 2022 and 2023, he received “Top Dog” 
awards for exceptional contributions to the company and excellence in work performance. 
(Applicant’s Exhibit D.)  His performance reviews for the periods from January 1, 2023, 
to December 31, 2023, and January 1, 2024, to December 31, 2024, reflect “outstanding” 
and “good performance” ratings, that highlight his integrity, leadership, and dedication to 
national security projects.  (Applicant’s Exhibits E and F.) 
Applicant testified that he has other obligations and priorities in his life now , and 
alcohol is not one of them. He is a football coach for both of his boys who are in sports 
all year round.  He has no time to be “hung over” or sick from alcohol.  He stated that he 
is committed to ensuring that he never reverts back to the situation in the past with 
alcohol.  He has built a strong support system around him and it does not involve drinking. 
Since his treatment in 2019, and th e steps he has taken to progress, he feels that he is 
in total control of his life.  During the hearing Applicant realized that alcohol plays no role 
in his life, and testified that he is done with alcohol, and will not drink again because he 
has a bright future ahead of him. (Tr. pp. 64-65). He has fought hard for his education, 
and has made a c ommitment to himself and others around him, and he does not ever 
want to lose it.  He stated that the most important thing to him is to continue progression 
and growth in his career to provide for his family , and to set an example for his children. 
(Tr. pp. 58-59.) 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
  
   
 
  
 
   
    
 
    
 
    
   
    
 
           
 
 
      
 
     
  
  
      
   
 
 
   
    
   
 
      
   
 
 
 
   
      
  
  
 
A letter from a former colleague describes Applicant as a person of exceptional 
character, integrity, and discretion, who can be trusted with sensitive information. 
(Applicant’s Exhibit G.) 
A letter from his mother-in-law, who has known Applicant for the past fifteen years 
because he is married to her daughter, is aware of the fact that he has struggled with 
alcohol abuse in the past.  She has carefully watched his progress through recovery. She 
saw him check himself into a treatment program.  After his initial stay, she saw him follow 
up with individual counseling and marital counseling to strengthen his relationship with 
her daughter, and to improve himself as a husband and a father. She saw that he even 
enrolled in on-line course work in order to increase his skills to obtain a better job for his 
family. She has watched him rebuild with integrity, humility, and maturity.  She stated 
that he has taken ownership for his past and has remained consistent in working towards 
improvement.  She believes that he is very responsible and trustworthy, and that his 
experiences have only deepened his resilience and strengthened his sense of 
responsibility.  (Applicant’s Exhibit H.) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant ’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The administrative 
judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. 
According to AG ¶ 2(a), the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of 
variables known as the whole- person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I 
have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical , and based on the 
evidence contained in the record. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
    
   
      
    
 
      
    
    
    
   
     
   
  
 
 
   
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
Directive ¶ E3.1.14, requires the Government to present evidence that establishes 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel , and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable clearance decision.” 
A person who applies for access to classified information seeks to enter into a 
fiduciary relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This 
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The 
Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it 
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of 
the possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or safeguard 
classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible 
extrapolation as to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified 
information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis 
Guideline G:  A
 lcohol Consumption  
AG
 ¶ 21 expresses the security concern pertaining to alcohol consumption: 
Excessive alcohol consumption often leads  to the exercise of  questionable  
judgment or  the failure to control impulses,  and can raise questions about  
an individual's reliability and trustworthiness.  
AG ¶ 22 describes conditions that could raise a security concern and may be 
disqualifying. The disqualifying conditions raised by the evidence are: 
(a) alcohol-r elated incidents  away from work, such as  driving while under  
the influence, fighting,  child or spouse abuse,  disturbing the peace, or other  
incidents  of concern, regardless  of the frequency of the individual’s alcohol  
use or  whether the i ndividual has been diagnosed with al cohol use di sorder;    
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
    
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
( b) alcohol-r elated incidents  at work, such as reporting for work or duty in  
an intoxicated or impaired condition,  drinking on the job, or jeopardizing the  
welfare and safety of others, regardless  of whether the individual is  
diagnosed with alcohol use disorder;  
(c) habitual  or  binge consumption of alcohol to the point of impaired  
judgment, regardless of whether the individual was diagnosed with alcohol  
use disorder.  
(d) diagnosis by  a dul y  qualified medical or mental health professional (e.g.,  
physician, clinical psychologist, psychiatrist, or licensed clinical social  
worker) of alcohol use disorder;  and  
(e) the failure to follow  t reatment advice once diagnosed.  
Appl
icant’s history of excessive alcohol consumption at one time posed a serious 
security problem. These incidents raise serious security concerns under AG ¶¶ 22(c) , 
22(d), and 22(e). 
AG ¶ 23 provides conditions that could mitigate alcohol consumption security 
concerns: 
(a) so much time has passed,  or  the behavior was so infrequent, or it  
happened under such unusual circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or  
does  not cast doubt on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or  
good judgment;   
(b) the individual acknowledges his  or  her pattern of maladaptive  alcohol  
use,  provides evidence of  actions taken to overcome this  problem, and has  
demonstrated a clear and established pattern of modified consumption or  
abstinence in accordance with treatment recommendations;  
(c) the individual is participating in counseling or a treatment  pr ogram, has no  
previous history of treatment or  relapse, and is  making satisfactory  progress  
in a treatment program; and  
(d) the individual has successfully completed a treatment program along with  
any  r
equired aftercare, and has demonstrated a clear  and established pat tern  
of  modified consumption or abstinence in accordance with treatment  
recommendations.    
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
            
 
   
   
 
    
 
      
  
    
  
   
 
   
    
     
 
   
     
   
 
 
   
    
       
     
 
 
Clearly, Applicant was at one time a problem drinker.  Since 2019, he has 
taken his drinking problem seriously.  He has used the tools he has learned from his 
treatment program and his counseling sessions and applied them to improve his life. 
He no longer drinks excessively and no longer has problems at home with his wife 
because of his drinking. 
Admittedly, there are some inconsistencies in the record, but the main issue here 
is not the small details but the uncontroverted facts that the Applicant who was addicted 
to alcohol, has self -admitted himself into treatment, received treatment and counsel ing, 
abstained from drinking, curtailed his drinking, and now stopped his drinking.  He is an 
excellent employee in the defense industry with no criminal record and his future success 
depends on him. 
As previously stated, and in summary, Applicant consumed alcohol at times to 
excess and to the point of intoxication from about 2018 until December 2024.  In 2019, 
he self-referred into an alcohol treatment program and since then has shown tremendous 
progress.  Following his treatment, he completely abstained from alcohol for about one 
year.  He then started drinking alcohol once a month or once every two months if at all. 
He has no real history of any alcohol-related arrests.  He has now decided to stop drinking 
altogether, recognizing that his family, children, and career, are his most important values 
in life.  He has continued to seek and receive professional counseling and treatment for 
his related conditions. He has an excellent work history and favorable evaluations.  Under 
the circumstances, Applicant has been credible and has demonstrated sufficient good 
judgment and reliability necessary to access classified information. 
Whole-Person  Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; (5)  the  extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
   
     
  
   
 
   
    
    
 
 
 
      
    
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
        
       
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Under AG ¶ 2( c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guideline F in my whole -person analysis. Based upon the facts and analysis set forth 
above, Applicant has provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that he meets the 
qualifications for a security clearance. 
Overall, the record evidence leaves me without questions or doubts as to 
Applicant’s eligibility and suitability for a security clearance . For all these reasons, I 
conclude Applicant has mitigated the Alcohol Consumption security concerns.  
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by ¶ E3.1.25 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  Guideline F:   FOR APPL
ICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a. and 1.b.  For Applicant  
Conc lusion  
In l
ight of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant national security eligibility for a 
security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Darlene Lokey Anderson 
Administrative Judge 
9 