 
 
 
                                                              
                         
          
           
             
 
 
    
  
        
      
   
 
   
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
       
  
     
 
   
     
     
    
    
    
  
 
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 25-00257 
Appearances  
For Government: Daniel P. O’Reilley, Esq., Department Counsel 
For Applicant: Pro se 
11/20/2025 
Decision 
BORGSTROM, Eric H., Administrative Judge: 
Applicant did not mitigate the security concerns arising from her delinquent debts. 
Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Statement  of the Case  
On February 20, 2025 , the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
(DCSA) issued a Statement of Reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing security concerns 
under Guideline F (financial considerations) . The DCSA acted under Executive Order 
(EO) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as 
amended; Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel 
Security Clearance Review Program (January 2, 1992), as amended (Directive); and the 
adjudicative guidelines (AG) implemented by the DOD on June 8, 2017. 
In  Applicant’s  March 1 1, 2025 response  to the SOR (Answer),  she denied SOR  ¶¶ 
1.a.  and 1.b., and she admitted  the debts in SOR  ¶¶ 1.c.  and 1.d.  She  provided 
documentary evidence of a settlement agreement  and one payment on one account  
(SOR  ¶ 1.d.).  She  requested a decision by an  administrative judge of the Defense Office 
of Hearings and Appeals  based upon the written record in lieu of  a hearing. (Answer)  
 
 
1 
 
 
    
  
       
   
  
 
  
    
    
     
    
     
 
 
   
   
     
 
    
   
  
 
    
 
    
  
    
 
  
    
 
   
    
 
   
    
 
      
  
 
  
  
    
  
   
On May 28, 2025, Department Counsel submitted a file of relevant material 
(FORM) and provided a complete copy to Applicant. Department Counsel’s FORM 
included Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 6. In the FORM, Department Counsel 
provided Applicant notice that failure to respond to the FORM may be considered a waiver 
of any objections to the admissibility of the evidentiary exhibits. 
On June 12, 2025, Applicant received the FORM and its attachments . A cover 
letter included with the FORM advised Applicant that she had 30 days from the date of 
receipt to file any objections or to provide any additional information in support of h er 
clearance eligibility. She did not submit a response to the FORM nor object to any of the 
Government’s evidentiary exhibits. The case was assigned to me on November 13, 2025. 
Government Exhibits (GE) 1 through 6 are admitted into evidence without objection. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant is 27 years old. She graduated from high school in 2016, and she 
attended college-level courses from August 2016 to September 2021. She has never 
married and does not have any children. (GE 3) 
Since January 2018, Applicant has held multiple, overlapping full -time and part -
time positions, without any periods of unemployment. In June 2018, she was terminated 
from her position as a sales associate for violating a store policy. In September 2019, she 
was terminated from her position as a sales associate for “no call/no show.” From June 
2018 to January 2024, Applicant was employed part time as a bank teller. She was 
terminated when her drawer was found to be short on two occasions. Since November 
2019, she also held a part -time position at a retail jewelry store, while maintaining her 
employment at the bank . In November 2023, she began work at an additional part -time 
position as a sales associate with a retail store. (GE 3) 
On March 15, 2024, Applicant completed and submitted an Electronic 
Questionnaire for Investigations Processing (e- QIP). Under Section 26 – Financial 
Record, she reported that she had a delinquent student loan in the approximate amount 
of $37,000. At the time she completed her e-QIP, the loan remained delinquent, and she 
claimed to have made or to be making $50 payments. (GE 3) 
In Applicant’s February 3, 2025 response to DOHA interrogatories, she admitted 
that her student loan accounts (SOR ¶¶ 1.a. and 1. c.), totaling approximately $50,883, 
remained unresolved. She claimed to have made payment arrangements but no 
payments. She also admitted SOR ¶ 1.b. and that it remained unpaid. She claimed that 
SOR ¶ 1.d. had been paid; however, she did not provide any evidence to corroborate this 
claim. She attached a budget reflecting $2,250 in monthly income, $1,925 in monthly 
expenses, and approximately $325 remaining. Her budget reflected no payments on her 
student loans or other debts. (GE 4) 
SOR ¶ 1.a. This student loan account was placed for collection in the approximate 
amount of $50,883. This account has been delinquent since at least July 2023 without 
any documentary evidence of deferments, payments, or payment arrangements. In her 
2 
 
 
  
   
 
 
    
    
    
   
  
 
    
  
   
   
   
 
    
  
  
    
     
 
    
  
  
    
   
 
 
 
 
    
  
  
      
   
 
 
    
 
  
  
    
      
 
response to DOHA interrogatories, Applicant claimed a deferment and some payments; 
however, there is no corroborating evidence for either claim. This debt is unresolved. 
(GE 3-6) 
SOR ¶ 1.b. This charge account was opened in February 2018, became delinquent 
as of January 2020, and was charged off in the approximate amount of $413. In her 
response to DOHA interrogatories, Applicant admitted this delinquent debt, and it is listed 
on both credit reports. There is no evidence of any payments or payment arrangements. 
This debt is unresolved. (GE 4-6) 
SOR ¶ 1.c. This student loan was opened in August 2016 and became delinquent 
in July 2019. It appears to have been sold to another creditor and may be reflected as 
SOR ¶ 1.a. Both credit reports reflect a charged off account with a zero balance. The 
record evidence does not establish that Applicant owes any liability on this student loan. 
This allegation is not established. (GE 5-6) 
SOR ¶ 1.d. This vehicle loan was opened in July 2019 and became delinquent in 
early 2024. As of November 2024, this loan was at least 120 days past due in the 
approximate amount of $648. With her Answer, Applicant attached a February 2025 
settlement agreement of $133 and evidence of a $33 payment. She has not provided any 
documentary evidence of further payments. This debt is unresolved. (GE 4-5) 
In her Answer, Applicant stated that she did not have any knowledge of the debts 
alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a. and 1.b. She admitted SOR ¶ 1.c. and explained that she had 
been unable to afford monthly payments sought by the creditor after she stopped 
attending college. She did not express any intent to contact the creditors in SOR ¶¶ 1.a., 
1.b., and 1.c. to identify the unknown accounts and establish payment plans. She 
provided no evidence of payments on the outstanding balance of the settlement 
agreement. (Answer) 
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant ’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching 
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a), 
the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the 
“whole-person concept.” The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable 
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a 
decision. 
3 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
     
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
 
  
  
 
   
 
    
 
 
 
 
        
 
 
  
  
 
   
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” 
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, the applicant is 
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant 
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision. 
A person who seeks access to sensitive information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
sensitive information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard sensitive informat ion. 
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation of potential, 
rather than actual, risk of compromise of sensitive information. 
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the 
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant 
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access 
to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline F: Financial Considerations  
The security concern for financial considerations is set out in AG ¶ 18: 
Failure to live within one’s means, satisfy debts,  and meet financial  
obligations may  indicate poor  self-control, lack of judgment, or  
unwillingness to abide by rules and regulations, all of which can raise  
questions about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to  
protect classified or sensitive information. Financial  distress can  also be  
caused or exacerbated by,  and thus can be a possible indicator of, other  
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling,  mental  
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An  
individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to  
engage in illegal  or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds.  . . .  
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 19. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) inability to satisfy debts; and 
4 
 
 
 
    
 
     
     
    
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
 
 
   
    
   
  
  
     
     
 
      
     
     
 
(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations. 
The Government established Applicant’s three delinquent consumer accounts 
(SOR ¶¶ 1.a., 1.b., and 1.d.) , totaling approximately $51,428. The Government did not 
establish the debt in SOR ¶ 1.c. AG ¶¶ 19(a) and 19(c) apply. 
Conditions that could mitigate the financial considerations security concerns are 
provided under AG ¶ 20. The following are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) the behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or occurred  
und
er such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does  not cast doubt  
on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness,  or good judgment;   
(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial  pr oblem were largely beyond  
the person’s control  (e.g., loss of employment, a business  downturn,  
unexpected medical emergency, a death,  divorce, or separation, clear  
victimization by  predatory  lending pract ices, or identity theft),  and the  
individual  acted responsibly under the circumstances;  
(c) the individual  has  received or is receiving financial counseling for the  
problem from  a legitimate and credible source, such as a non- profit credit  
counseling service,  and there are clear indications that the problem is being  
resolved or is under control;  
(d) the individual has initiated and is adhering to a good-fa ith  effort to repay  
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  and  
(e) the i
ndividual has a reasonable basis to dispute the legitimacy of the 
past-due debt which is the cause of the problem and provides documented 
proof to substantiate the basis of the dispute or provides evidence of actions 
to resolve the issue. 
Applicant bears the burdens of production and persuasion in mitigation. An 
applicant is not held to a standard of perfection in his or her debt -resolution efforts or 
required to be debt-free. “Rather, all that is required is than an applicant act responsibly 
given [her] circumstances and develop a reasonable plan for repayment, accompanied 
by ‘concomitant conduct,’ that is, actions which evidence a serious intent to effectuate the 
plan.” ISCR Case No. 15-02903 at 3 (App. Bd. Mar. 9, 2017). See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 
13-00987 at 3, n.5 (App. Bd. Aug. 14, 2014). 
Applicant’s two credit reports illustrate that her three delinquent accounts remain 
delinquent, and her financial problems are ongoing. There is no evidence of credit 
counseling. AG ¶¶ 20(a) and 20(c) do not apply. 
5 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
      
      
  
     
 
 
 
   
    
     
     
 
  
 
  
    
 
  
 
 
      
   
   
  
   
   
  
 
     
 
   
 
 
Applicant did not directly identify any circumstances beyond her control that  
contributed to her financial delinquencies; however, in her Answer, she indicates that she  
was unable to afford her student loan payments. Her employment history reflects  
overlapping full-time a nd part-time positions,  but there is very limited information as to her  
income. Applicant bears the burden to establish circumstances beyond her control  that  
largely contributed to her financial problems  ---and  that she acted responsibly. She did not  
provide sufficient evidence to  establish either element of AG  ¶  20(b).  
A
pplicant provided documentary evidence of one $33 payment. She has not 
demonstrated a track record of good- faith efforts to resolve these delinquent accounts. 
AG ¶ 20(d) does not apply. 
Applicant denied knowledge of SOR ¶¶ 1.a. and 1.b.; however, the se delinquent 
accounts are established by her credit reports. There is no evidence of any disputes filed, 
and she has not provided documented evidence of a dispute or efforts to resolve these 
two unfamiliar accounts. AG ¶ 20(e) does not apply. Applicant did not mitigate the 
financial considerations security concerns. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information by considering the totality of the 
applicant’s conduct and all relevant circumstances. The administrative judge should 
consider the nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the 
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable 
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the 
individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; ( 5) the extent to 
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation 
and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; 
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the 
likelihood of continuation or recurrence. 
Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a 
security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful 
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. I considered the potentially 
disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all the facts and circumstances 
surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under Guideline F and the 
factors in AG ¶ 2(d) in this whole-person analysis. 
Although Applicant did not directly address the causes of her financial 
delinquencies, the record evidence suggests periods of underemployment or lower 
income may have prevented her from making her student loan payments. 
Notwithstanding these circumstances, she has not demonstrated that she has acted 
responsibly to address and resolve her delinquent debts. There is no plan in place to 
6 
 
 
  
    
   
  
 
 
      
    
 
     
 
     
     
     
 
  
   
     
       
 
 
 
 
make payments on her delinquent accounts. Based upon the record evidence, doubts 
remain as to her financial responsibility, reliability, and judgment. She did not mitigate the 
financial considerations security concerns. Eligibility for access to classified information 
is denied. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as 
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: 
Paragraph 1,  Gui
 deline F:   AGAIN
ST APPLICANT 
Subparagraphs 1.a.-1.b.:
 
S
ubparagraph 1.c.:  
Subparagraph 1.d.:  
Against  Applicant  
For Applicant  
Against Applicant  
C
onclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, I conclude 
that it is not clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant Applicant ’s 
eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. 
Eric H. Borgstrom 
Administrative Judge 
7 