 
 
 
                                                              
 
 
                                                                                                                    
          
           
             
 
 
 
 
  
  
                
   
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
      
    
    
   
  
   
 
______________ 
______________ 
DEP
ARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
In the matter of: 
Applicant for Security Clearance 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
ISCR Case No. 25-00026 
Appearances  
For Government: 
Aubrey De Angelis, Esquire, Department Counsel 
For Applicant: 
Sean D. Rogers, Esquire, Applicant’s Counsel 
12/10/2025 
Decision 
CEFOLA, Richard A., Administrative Judge: 
Statement  of the Case  
On March 27, 2025, in accordance with Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 
5220.6, as amended (Directive), the DoD issued Applicant a Statement of Reasons 
(SOR) alleging facts that raise security concerns under Guidelines D, E and J. The SOR 
further informed Applicant that, based on information available to the government, DoD 
adjudicators could not make the preliminary affirmative finding it is clearly consistent with 
the national interest to grant or continue Applicant’s security clearance. 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
  
   
   
   
     
   
   
 
 
       
    
 
 
   
  
      
 
 
      
   
     
    
       
      
     
     
   
     
      
   
  
    
 
   
  
Applicant answered the SOR on May 29, 2025, and requested a hearing before an 
administrative judge. (Answer.) The case was assigned to me on July 21, 2025. The 
Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) issued a notice of hearing on 
September 12, 2025, scheduling the hearing for November 18, 2025. T he hearing was 
convened as scheduled. The Government offered Exhibits (GXs) 1 and 2, and requested 
administrative notice of two relevant state statutes. GXs 1 and 2 were admitted without 
objection, and such administrative notice was taken. Applicant testified on his own behalf, 
as did his parents. Applicant submitted 20 exhibits, marked Applicant Exhibit (AppX s) A 
through T, which were admitted without objection. The record then closed. DOHA 
received the transcript of the hearing (TR) on December 3, 2025. 
Findings of Fact  
Applicant admitted all of the allegations in SOR, except for ¶ 1.d. After a thorough 
and careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings 
of fact. 
Applicant is a 25-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been 
employed with the defense contractor since August of 2023. Applicant has a bachelor’s 
degree, is not married, and has no children. (GX 1 at pages 5, 9~10 and 18.) 
Guideline D  -  Sexual Behavior , Guideline  E  -  Personal Conduct & Guideline J  - 
Criminal Conduct  
1.a.~1.c., 2.a. and 3.a. When Applicant was 16 and 17 years old, he had improper 
sexual relations with his younger , adopted sister on four separate occasions , between 
January 2017 and January of 2018. As a result, in October of 2018, he was charged with 
four felony counts of sexual assault on a child, and with one felony count of enticement 
of a child. After the incidents were disclosed, Applicant went to live with his grandparents. 
His parents testified that they gave their adopted daughter the power to be in charge of 
any possible reconciliation between the two siblings. They have, in part, reconciled as 
evidenced by a “Victim Impact Statement,” from his sister who was then attending “boot 
camp” with the U.S Army. Applicant successfully completed all required therapy; and as 
a result; in February of 2020, t he charges against him were “dismissed with prejudice,” 
and “expunged” from his juvenile record. He never went to trial, and he is “not required to 
register as a sexual offender.” (TR at page 15 line 14 to page 22 line 16, at page 28 line 
13 to page 32 line 20, at page 36 line 5 to page 44 line 23, at page 46 line 3 to page 54 
line 23, and AppXs A, N, O, P, R, S and T.) 
Applicant was truthful and contrite throughout his hearing. (TR at page 12 line 18 
to page 34 line 9.) 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
      
       
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
  
      
   
 
 
   
    
   
 
      
   
 
 
Applicant’s father, a former “FBI Chaplain,” and currently a “Law Enforcement 
Chaplain” and “Fire Chaplain” for his state , testified on his son’s behalf and offered a 
signed statement regarding his son and adopted daughter (TR at page 46 line 3 to page 
54 line 23): 
“In  . . .  [Applicant’s]  teenage years he made mistakes and worked through  
the consequences of his decisions. [Applicant] . . .  made amends to the best  
of his ability and took responsibility for his actions.  As . . . [Applicant] worked 
through the court  processes,  each person he engaged with noted his  
restoration behavior and concluded  with early completion of  the court  
deferment  stipulations; resulting i n the c ase being dismissed and ex punged. 
This case was . .  . [Applicant’s]  only contact  with law enforcement  and since  
his teenage years, has had no further  legal proceedings.  Though this  
circumstance  was  difficult for . . . [Applicant] and our family, we have  moved 
forward in healthy relationships with one another.  
As our family processed through difficult times, . . . [Appl icant’s adopted  
sister] gained great  strength  and confidence.  She excelled in high school  
and graduated at seventeen years old. She i s  currently serving in the United 
States  Army and training to become a Combat  Medic. Though the early  
years of her life were challenging, she has become a successful young  
woman. (AppX G.)  
Policies  
When evaluating an applicant ’s suitability for a security clearance, the 
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines (AG). In addition to brief 
introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially 
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are useful in evaluating an 
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. 
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the 
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction 
with the factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing the adjudicative process. The administrative 
judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. 
According to AG ¶ 2(a), the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of 
variables known as the whole- person concept. The administrative judge must consider 
all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and 
unfavorable, in making a decision. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
  
  
 
       
      
    
      
   
 
   
  
   
  
    
      
     
   
  
    
    
   
    
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
The protection of national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) 
requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security 
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have 
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical and based on the evidence 
contained in the record. Likewise, I have avoided drawing inferences grounded on mere 
speculation or conjecture. 
Directive ¶ E3.1.14, requires the Government to present evidence to establish 
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, an “applicant is 
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or 
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel , and has the 
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable clearance decision.” 
A person who seeks access to classified information enters into a fiduciary 
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship 
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off -duty hours. The Government 
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to 
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk 
the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to protect or safeguard classified 
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as 
to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. 
Section 7 of Executive Order 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in 
terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of 
the applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple 
prerequisites for access to classified or sensitive information). 
Analysis  
Guideline D  - Sexual Behavior  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Sexual Behavior is set out in AG 
¶ 12: 
Sexual behavior that involves a criminal offense; reflects a lack of judgment 
or discretion; or may subject the individual to undue influence of coercion, 
exploitation, or duress. These issues, together or individually, may raise 
questions about an individual's judgment, reliability, trustworthiness, and 
ability to protect classified or sensitive information. Sexual behavior 
includes conduct occurring in person or via audio, visual, electronic, or 
written transmission. No adverse inference concerning the standards in this 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
     
 
 
 
 
     
   
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Guideline may  be raised solely on the basis  of the sexual orientation of the  
individual.  
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 13. Three are potentially applicable in this case: 
(a) sexual behavior of  a cr iminal nature, whether or not  the individual has  
been prosecuted;  
(b) a pattern of compulsive, self -dest ructive, or high- risk sexual behavior  
that  the individual is unable to stop;  and   
(c) sexual behavior that causes an individual to be vulnerable to coercion,  
expl
oitation, or  duress.  
Appli
cant had improper sexual relations with his younger adopted sister on four 
occasions. The evidence is sufficient to raise these disqualifying conditions. 
AG ¶ 14 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. I considered 
all of the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 including: 
(a) the behavior occurred prior to or  duri ng  adolescence and there is no 
evidence of subsequent conduct of a similar nature;  
(b) the sexual behavior happened so long ago, so infrequently,  or  under  
such unusual circumstances,  that it is unlikely to recur and does not cast  
doubt on the individual's current reliability, trustworthiness, or judgment;  
(c)  the behavior no l onger  s erves as a basis  for  coercion, exploitation,  or  
duress;  
(d) the sexual  behav ior is strictly private, consensual, and discreet;  and  
(e) the individual has  s uccessfully completed an appropriate program of  
treatment, or is currently enrolled in one, has demonstrated ongoing and  
consistent compliance with the treatment  plan,  and/or has received a  
favorable prognosis  from a qualified mental health professional  indicating  
the behavior is readily controllable with treatment.  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
     
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
     
  
 
   
 
  
     
 
 
 
      
   
 
  
   
 
 
Applicant’s behavior occurred during his adolescence, the last time being nearly 
eight years ago in January of 2018. He has a very favorable psychological evaluation, 
and completed all court ordered requirements, six months early. Sexual Behavior is found 
for Applicant. 
Guideline E  - Personal Conduct  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Personal Conduct is set out in 
AG ¶ 15: 
Conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or 
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions 
about an individual's reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect 
classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure to 
cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national security 
investigative or adjudicative processes. 
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise security concerns under 
AG ¶ 16. One is potentially applicable in this case: 
(e) personal conduct,  or c
 oncealment  of information about one's conduct,  
that creates  a vulnerability to exploitation,  manipulation,  or duress by a  
foreign intelligence entity  or other individual  or group. Such  conduct  
includes:  
(1) engaging in activities which, if known, could affect  the  
per
son's personal, professional, or community standing.  
Appli
cant had sexual relations with his underage, adopted sister. The evidence is 
sufficient to raise this disqualifying condition. 
AG ¶ 17 provides conditions that could mitigate security concerns. I considered 
all of the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 17 including: 
(c) the offense is so minor, or so much time has passed, or the behavior is  
so i
nfrequent, or it happened under such unique circumstances that it is  
unlikely to recur  and  does not cast doubt  on the individual's reliability,  
trustworthiness, or  good judgment;  
(d) the individual has acknowledged the behavior and obtained counseling  
to c
hange the behavior or taken other positive steps to alleviate the  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
     
  
       
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
   
 
    
   
 
 
 
stressors, circumstances, or factors that contributed to untrustworthy, 
unreliable, or other inappropriate behavior, and such behavior is unlikely to 
recur; 
(e) the individual has  ta
 ken positive steps to reduce or eliminate vulnerability  
to exploitation,  manipulation, or duress;  and  
(g) association with persons involved in criminal activities was unwitting,  
has c
eased, or occurs  under circumstances  that  do not cast doubt upon the  
individual's reliability, trustworthiness, judgment,  or willingness  to comply  
with rules and regulations.  
Appli
cant’s improper conduct occurred nearly eight years ago when he was a 
juvenile. His entire family knows of his past misconduct. Applicant has produced evidence 
of counseling and of the positive steps , to include reconciliation with his sister , that 
alleviate any risks that could result from his past conduct. Personal Conduct is found for 
Applicant. 
Guideline J  - Criminal Conduct  
The security concern relating to the guideline for Criminal Conduct is set out in AG 
¶ 30: 
Criminal activity creates doubt about a person's judgment, reliability, and 
trustworthiness. By its very nature, it calls into question a person's ability or 
willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations. 
The guideline at AG ¶ 31 contains five disqualifying conditions that could raise a 
security concern and may be disqualifying. Two conditions apply, as discussed below: 
(a) a pattern of  mi
 nor offenses, any  one of which on its own would be  
unlikely to affect a  national security eligibility decision, but which in  
combination cast doubt  on the individual's judgment, reliability, or  
trustworthiness; and  
(b) evidence (including, but not limited to, a credible allegation, an 
admi
ssion, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of  
whether the individual  was formally charged,  prosecuted, or convicted.  
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
   
  
 
    
 
 
 
 
    
    
     
    
   
     
 
 
   
    
       
     
 
Applicant was charged, when he was a juvenile , in court with improper sexual 
conduct. This evidence raises security concerns under these disqualifying conditions , 
thereby shifting the burden to Applicant to rebut, extenuate, or mitigate those concerns. 
The guideline in AG ¶ 32 contains two conditions that could mitigate criminal 
conduct security concerns: 
(a) so much time has  elaps ed since the criminal behavior happened, or it  
happened under such unusual circumstances, that it is  unlikely to recur and  
does not cast doubt on the individual's reliability, trustworthiness,  or good  
judgment; and  
(d) there is evidence of successful rehabilitation; including, but not limited  
to,
 the passage of time without recurrence of criminal activity, restitution,  
compliance with the terms of parole or  probation, job training or higher  
education, good employment  record,  or constructive community  
involvement.  
Suff
icient time has passed, nearly eight years, since Applicant’s juvenile criminal 
conduct. He provided evidence of rehabilitation and reconciliation with his family, to 
include his victim-sister. The evidence of his improper conduct has been expunged from 
his state’s public records. Based on those facts, the evidence does not cast doubt on 
Applicant’s reliability, trustworthiness, and good judgment. The evidence establishes 
mitigation under both of the above conditions. Criminal Conduct is found for Applicant. 
Whole-Person Concept  
Under the whole- person concept, the a dministrative judge must evaluate an 
applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s 
conduct and all relevant circumstances. The a dministrative judge should consider the 
nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): 
(1) the nature, extent,  and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the  
circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable  
participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct;  (4) the  
individual’s age and maturity at  the time of  the conduct; ( 5) the  extent to  
which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation  
and other permanent  behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct;  
(8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the  
likelihood of continuation or recurrence.  
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
   
    
    
   
       
     
      
     
  
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
  
 
     
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Under AG ¶ 2( c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a security 
clearance must be an overall common-sense judgment based upon careful consideration 
of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. 
I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions in light of all 
facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under 
Guidelines D, E, and J in my whole -person analysis. Some of the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) 
were addressed under those guidelines, but some warrant additional comment. Of 
significant importance is the Applicant’s “age and maturity at the time of the admitted 
conduct. He was a young teenager. The Applicant is now highly respected at work and in 
his community, as evidenced by his parents ’ testimony, by an award, performance 
evaluations, and by six letters of recommendation. (AppXs D~F, and I~M.) Overall, the 
record evidence leaves me without questions and doubts as to Applicant’s eligibility and 
suitability for a security clearance. For all these reasons, I conclude Applicant mitigated 
the sexual behavior, personal conduct, and criminal conduct security concerns. 
Formal Findings  
Formal findings  for or  against Applicant  on the allegations set forth in the SOR,  as  
required by  ¶  E3.1.25 of  the Directive, are:  
Paragraph 1,  G
 uideline D:   FOR  APPLICANT  
Subparagraphs  1.a~1.d:  For  Applicant  
Paragraph 2, Guideline E:  FOR  APPLICANT  
Subparagraph  2.a:  For  Applicant  
Paragraph 2, Guideline J:   FOR  APPLICANT  
Subparagraph  3.a:  For  Applicant  
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
      
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
________________________ 
Conclusion  
In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is clearly 
consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security clearance. 
Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. 
Richard A. Cefola 
Administrative Judge 
10 