__________ __________ DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS In the matter of: ) ) ____________________ ) ISCR Case No. 23-02370 ) Applicant for Security Clearance ) Appearances For Government: Andrew Henderson, Esq, Department Counsel For Applicant: Pro se 02/11/2025 Decision WESLEY, ROGER C. Administrative Judge Based upon a review of the case file, pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, Applicant did not mitigate financial consideration concerns. Eligibility f or access to classified information or to hold a sensitive position is denied. Statement of the Case On December 11, 2023 , the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency Consolidated Adjudication Services (DCSA CAS) issued a statement of reasons (SOR) to Applicant detailing reasons why under the financial considerations guideline the DCSA CAS could not mak e the preliminary affirmative determination of eligibility for granting a security clearance, and recommended referral to an administrative judge to determine whether a security clearance should be granted, continued, denied, or revoked. The action was taken under Executive Order (Exec. Or.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified I nformation within Industry (February 20, 1960 ); Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 5220.6 Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program, (January 2, 1992) (Directive); and Security Executive Agent Directive 4, establishing in Appendix A the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AGs), effective June 8, 2017.

Applicant responded to the SOR on January 22 2024, and requested that h is case be resolved on the written record without a hearing . Applicant received the Fie of Relevant Materials ( FORM) on February 8, 2024, and timely responded to the FORM with a letter of explanation and attached endorsement from his assistant program manager. This case was assigned to me on January 21, 2025. The Government’s case consisted of six exhibits that were admitted without objection as Items 1-7. Applicant’s post-FORM submission was admitted without objection as Item 8. Summary of Pleadings Under Guideline F, Applicant allegedly accumulated nine d elinquent debts exceeding $74,000. Allegedly, Applicant’s delinquent debts have not been resolved and remain outstanding. In Applicant’s response to the SOR, he admitted the a llegations with explanations and clarifications. He claimed a continuing lack of employment in previous years. His response did not explain the circumstances surrounding his accrual of so many debts and why he could no t attend to them soone r, once he returned to steady employment. Findings of Fact Applicant is a 54-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security clearance. Allegations covered in the SOR and admitted by Applicant are incorporated and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow. Background Applicant married in April 1993 and divorced in December 1998. (Item 2) He has no children from this marriage. He remarried in February 1999 and has one adult child from this marriage. (Item 2) Applicant enlisted in the Army in April 1991 and served three years of active duty. He received an honorable discharge in April 1994. (Item 2) He earned a bachelor’s degree in May 2005. (Item 2) Since March 2022, Applicant has been employed by h is current employer as a system administrator. (Item 2) Previously, he worked for other employers in various support positions. He reported multiple periods of unemployment between June 2016 and March 2022. (Item 2) H e is sponsored for a security clearance by his current employer but has never held a security clearance. (Item 2) Applicant’s Finances Between 20 18 and 20 23, Applicant accumulated nine delinquent debts exceeding $ 74,000. (Items 3 -5) The reported delinquent accounts have either been charged off or placed for collection. Applicant attributed the majority of his debts (mostly defaulted credit card accounts) to a COVID -related layoff, other episodes of unemployment, assistance to disabled family members , and emergency room visits.

(Items 5 and 8) While he has considered it wise to consult with someone “to get on a payment plan,” he has failed to provide any documented payments or payment plans to resolve his listed-SOR debts. (Item 3) The developed record is unclear as to how much monthly income Applicant currently earns. He reported no income since April 2023 and furnished no updates of current and monthly income and expenses in his personal subject interview (PSI). (items 3 -4) More recently, he was admitted to an independent living program that retains a financial advisor on staff to help Applicant and other residents of the facility with their finances . (Item 8) How much financial assistance he has received from his residence counselor is unclear. Policies By virtue of the jurisprudential principles recognized by t he U.S. Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan , 484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988 ), “no one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” As Commander in Chief, “the President has the authority to control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information. ” Egan. at 527. Eligibility for access to classified information may only be granted “upon a finding that it is clearly consistent with the national interest to do so. ” Exec. Or. 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. Eligibility for a security clearance is predicated upon the applicant meeting the criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge ’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial , and commonsense decision. An administrative judge must consider all available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. The AGs list guidelines to be considered by judges in the decision -making process covering DOHA cases. These guideline s take into account factors that could create a potential conflict of interest for the individual applicant, as well as considerations that could affect the individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified information. These AGs include conditions that could raise a security concern and may be disqualifying (disqualifying conditions), if any, and all of the conditions that could mitigate security concerns, if any. These guidelines must be considered before deciding whether or not a security clearance should be granted, continued, or denied. Although, the guidelines do not require judges to place exclusive reliance on the enumerated disqualifying and mitigating conditions in the guidelines in arriving at a decision. In addition to the relevant AGs, judges must take into account the pertinent considerations for assessing extenuation and mitigation set forth in ¶ 2(a) of the AGs, which are intended to assist the judges in reaching a fair and impartial, commonsense decision based on a careful consideration of the per tinent guidelines within the context

of the whole person. The adjudicative process is designed to examine a sufficient period of an applicant’s life to enable predictive judgments to be made about whether the applicant is an acceptable security risk. When evaluating an applicant’s conduct, the relevant guidelines are to be considered together with the following ¶ 2(d) factors: (1) the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; (2) the circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable participation; (3) the frequency and recency of the conduct; (4) the individual’s age and maturity at the time of the conduct; (5) the extent to which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation of the conduct; (8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence. Viewing the issues raised and evidence as a whole, the following individual guidelines are pertinent herein: Financial Considerations The Concern: Failure or inability to live within one’s means, satisfy debts and meet financial obligation s may indicate poor self -control, lack of judgment, or unwillingness to abide by rules or regulations, all of which can raise question s about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified or sensitive information. Financial distress can also be caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of other issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An individual who is financially overextended is at greater risk of having to engage in illegal acts or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. . . . AG ¶ 18. Burdens of Proof The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with access to classified information. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation a bout potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Clearance decisions must be “in terms of the national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” See Exec. Or. 10865 , Feb. 20, 1960, § 7. See also Exec. Or. 12968 (Aug. 2, 1995), § 3.1. Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant

from being eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan, 484 U.S. at 531. “Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth., 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria listed therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See ISCR Case No. 95-0611 at 2 (App. Bd. May 2, 1996). Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition by substantial evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue his [or her] security clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01 -20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). The burden of disproving a mitigating condition never shifts to the Government. See ISCR Case No. 02-31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; see AG ¶ 2(b). Analysis Security concerns are raised over Applicant’s accumulation of nine delinquent debts (exceeding $74,000) that raise trust, reliability, and judgment concerns about h is current and future ability to manage h is finances safely and respon sibly. These concerns are addressed below. Financial concerns Applicant’s accumulated delinquent debts warrant the application of t wo of the disqualifying conditions (DC) of the financial consideration guidelines. DC ¶¶ 19(a), “inability to satisfy debts, ” and 19(c), “a history of not meeting financial obligations” apply to Applicant’s situation. His admitted debt delinquencies require no independent proof to substantiate them. See Directive 5220.6 at E3.1.1.14; McCormick on Evidence § 262 (6th ed. 2006). H is admitted debt delinquencies are fully documented and raise judgment issues over the management of his finances. See ISCR Case No. 03-01059 (App. Bd. Sept. 24, 2004).

Financial stability in a person cleared to protect classified information is required precisely to inspire trust and confidence in the holder of a security clearance that entitles the person to access classified information. While the principal concern of a security clearance holder’s demonstrated difficulties is vulnerability to coercion and influence, judgment and trust concerns are implicit in cases involving delinquent debts. Historically, the timing of addressing and resolving his nine debt delinquencies (SORs ¶¶ 1.a-1.i) are critical to an assessment of an applicant’s trustworthiness, reliability, and good judgment in following rules and guidelines necessary for those seeking access to classified information or to holding a sensitive position. See ISCR Case No. 14-06808 at 3 (App. Bd. Nov. 23. 2016) ; ISCR Case No. 14 -01894 at 5 (App. Bd. Aug. 18, 2015); ISCR Case No. 14-00221 at 2-5 (App. Bd. June 29, 2016).

Without any documented evidence of Applicant’s resolving his debt delinquencies associated with his reported multiple periods of unemployment with payoffs, payment plan s, or demonstrated good cau se for why these debts have not been resolved to date , potentially available mitigating conditions are limited . Only mitigating condition (MCs) 19(b), “the conditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely beyond the person’s control (e.g., loss of employment, a business downturn, unexpected medical emergency, a death, divorce or separation, clear victimization by predatory lending practices, or identity theft), and the individual ac ted responsibly under the circumstances ,,” is available to Applicant. And, this mitigating condition is only partially available to Applicant without more information on the current status of his debts. In the past, the Appeal Board has consistently imposed evidentiary burdens on applicants to provide documentation corroborating actions taken to resolve financial problems, whether the issues relate to back taxes or other debts and accounts . See ISCR Case No. 19 -02593 at 4-5 (App. Bd. Oct. 18, 2021); ISCR Case No. 19 -01599 at 3 (App. Bd. Jan. 20, 2020) . Afforded opportunities to do so, Applicant has provided insufficient information on the status of his debts. Applicant’s suggestions of a prospective need to consult a financial counselor on how to set up a payment plan, while encouraging, lacks any specific commitments or documented follow-up efforts on his part. His expressed belief in the value of a financial counselor in setting up payment plans cannot be assigned much probative weight without supporting documentation. Applicant’s expressed beliefs in the value of financial counseling, and even implicit commitments, by themselves without any follow up represent no more than promises to resolve his still outstanding debts and are not viable substitutes for a track record of paying debts in a timely manner and otherwise acting in a responsible way. See I SCR Case No. 17 -04110 at 4 (App. Bd. Sept. 26, 2019) Whole-person assessment Whole-person assessment of Applicant’s clearance eligibility requires consideration of whether his history of accumulated delinquent accounts is fully compatible with minimum standards for holding a security clearance. While Applicant is entitled to credit for h is work in the defense industry, h is efforts are not enough at this time to overcome h is repeated failures or inability to address his debts in a timely way . Overall trustworthiness, reliability, and good judgment have not been established. Based on a consideration of all of the facts and circum stances considered in this case, it is too soon to make safe predictions that Applicant will be able to undertake documented good-faith efforts to mitigate the Government’s financial concerns within the foreseeable future. More time is needed for h im to establish the requisite levels of stability with h is finances to establish h is overall eligibility for holding a security clearance. I have carefully applied the law, as set forth in Department of Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518 (1988) , Exec. Or. 10865 , the Directive, and the AGs , to the facts and circumstances in the context of the whole person . I conclude financial considerations

__________________________ security concerns are not mitigated. E ligibility for access to classified information is denied. Formal Findings Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: Guideline F (FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS): AGAINST APPLICANT Subparagraphs 1.a-1.i: Against Applicant Conclusion In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. Roger C. Wesley Administrative Judge
